Today, the FOMC decided to leave our
policy rate unchanged.
>> to just basically completely ignore the
Middle Eastern shock that we're facing
here.
>> They're basically saying all of this
going on in the Middle East is a speed
bump.
>> I'm not really taking the step or the
dots um very seriously.
>> There's not a huge amount of forecast
accuracy here.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday wrestling with escalation.
Major energy assets taking significant
hits across the Middle East sending
Brent crude surging and fueling another
spike in gas prices leaving President
Trump struggling to stop the situation
spinning out of control. That story is
where we begin this hour. The White
House looking to limit the fallout from
the Israeli strike on Iranian gas
fields.
>> Retaliatory stat strikes causing
extensive damage to a Qatari complex
housing the world's largest LNG export
plant. The president playing down US
involvement suggesting no more such
strikes will be made unless Iran
continues to target similar assets in
Qatar. It's a struggle to turn down the
temperature.
>> Yeah, right now we're talking not just
about oil barrels and gas shipments that
aren't traveling in the the strait, but
we're also talking about barrels that
are not going to come back so quickly
because of energy fields that are
getting struck.
>> Helima Croft of RBC really nailed this.
She said, "We think there may be too
much emphasis on the taco trade as Iran
could continue attacks even if President
Trump seeks to call time to restore a
measure of deterrence against future
American military action."
>> And they are continuing attacks. We saw
a huge port on the Red Sea, a refinery
at that port in Saudi Arabia that was
hit today. Yesterday it was all about
Qatar. This is a new phase of the war.
Military installations are not only the
targets now. Actual energy
infrastructure and I'm talking about
massive energy infrastructure facilities
are at play right now and that is why
you see Brent crude absolutely spiking
in response to what is going on in the
region.
>> Let's watch through the price action
piece by piece. Just unpack this
briefly. Look at the US versus Europe in
the equity markets so far this morning.
Equity futures stateside on the S&P 500
just about unchanged. Check out Europe.
On the DAX this morning down by more
than 2% and look at this. The spread is
opening up between WTI and Brent close
to 20 bucks earlier on this morning.
Brent's up by seven, WTI unchanged. What
do you think that is starting to speak
to?
>> It's starting to speak to a divergence
between two markets, both the European
Brent market and the US market which
implies that they can stay separated for
a prolonged period of time. Sure, the
physical barrels that are coming from
Iran and from Iraq and from Saudi Arabia
are going largely to Europe. see of
course natural gas and a question around
exactly where they're going to get it
given that a fifth of the supplies are
now potentially offline for a while. At
the same time, is there no coming
together of these two markets? That
really raises a question. The United
States is a net net energy exporter. I
think what the market is reading right
now that besides the Jones Act waiver
which yesterday the president signed
which is going to mean that any US any
vessel doesn't need to be a US vessel
can carry energy products to any port in
the United States. The market I think is
starting to price in the fact that the
next step this administration can take
is banning export of products and that
is why WTI is tamed and Brent is going
to go potentially parabolic.
>> Brent crude this morning 115 and high by
more than 7%. Coming up this hour catch
up with Seema Shah of Principal Asset
Management with stocks pulling back.
Michael Harnett of Bank of America as
private credit concerns press on and
Krishna Guha of Evercore as Fed chair
Jay Powell vows to stay on through the
DOJ investigation. We begin this hour
with our top story, crude surging past
110 following strikes on major energy
sites across the Middle East.
Bloomberg's Jamila Abu Sbeih joins us
now for more from Dubai. Jamila, good
morning. Escalation in the last 24
hours.
Indeed, John. And and that's kind of
been the theme every single day. Day 20
of this war, another major escalation
overnight. And after those Israeli air
strikes on Iran's main gas field, the
South Pars gas field, Iran did vow to
retaliate in a meaningful capacity. They
said that the energy infrastructure
sites across the Gulf would be
legitimate targets. And indeed, that is
what transpired in the evening
yesterday. They have essentially lashed
out at multiple Gulf states and at some
of these key areas, including refineries
in Kuwait, refineries in Riyadh. We've
just heard as well in the past hour that
they also launched attacks at the Yanbu
port. That is a key port on the Red Sea.
So, they're targeting a different part
of a whole different geography now and
has been a key
source for Saudi Arabia to reroute some
of their own oil. But I guess the
biggest development, the most notable
one, has been them targeting that Ras
Laffan facility once again in Qatar.
Now, in the early days of the war, they
did target the same facility, which led
Qatar Energy to announce this force
majeure. But the difference is
yesterday, while Qatar authorities
successfully intercepted four missiles,
one of the missiles managed to
penetrate, it broke through, and caused
quote unquote extensive damage. And that
is the language that was put out by
Qatar Energy themselves. And so, we've
moved on to a new phase here, where the
market doesn't just have to account for
the disruption of flows in the fact that
the flows are being stuck in and around
the Persian Gulf, but possible
destruction of physical supply as well.
And this is the key game-changing moment
overnight. President Trump is trying to
distance himself from those initial
Israeli air strikes on on the Iranian
gas fields. but I will say the re- the
response that's coming through from the
Gulf states really speaks to one of
anger and the fact that this from their
perspective is a massive game changer.
The perception is that Iran have really
crossed the red line here. You don't
have to go so far. Uh the ADNOC CEO
Sultan Al Jaber just put up a a a a
comment on LinkedIn saying that this
weaponization of energy needs to stop.
Civilian infrastructure should not be a
target. The Saudi foreign minister has
gone one step further and said that
their patience is not uh uh indefinite
and uh Saudi Arabia reserves the right
to respond in a political fashion or and
he adds and in non-political fashion as
well. Qatar Ministry of Foreign Affairs
put out several statements overnight
calling this a flagrant violation of
their sovereignty. They also kicked out
the military and the security I should
say security and political attachés that
Iran had in the country. So, a major
escalation. Jumana with the latest.
Jumana, thank you. Jumana Bacetti out of
Dubai leading our coverage out of the
region again this morning. This is odd,
the president attempting to distance
himself from events in the last 24
hours. Axios standing by their
reporting. We've touched on that a few
times. The strike was carried out in
coordination with and with the approval
of the United States.
>> Yeah, and the same reporter who broke
the news initially came back and said
when he spoke to a number of officials
both in US as well as in Israel, they
confirmed that the US was aware of this.
It is a real question. What is the
signal that President Trump is trying to
distance himself and distance the United
States from these strikes? Is that an
attempt to de-escalate things? Is this
an attempt for domestic uh popularity?
Is this uh an attempt to potentially
placate some of the Saudi Arabian and
UAE leaders? A real question about the
signal more than the actual fact here.
>> Our reporting as well, the US was aware
of what was going on in terms of Israel
going after South Pars, didn't
participate, but was aware. Jumana
touched on a really important point
right now. The capitals in the Gulf are
turning their back on Tehran in a very
dramatic way. They are very annoyed and
they think they have crossed a red line.
On top of that though, the Wall Street
Journal says Arab governments are also
furious about Israel's attack and the
US's failure to head it off.
>> Let's get to the view on Wall Street
this morning. Seema Shah of Principal
Asset Management writing our base case
remains that the disruption to oil
markets is ultimately transient. The
pullback in global equities though,
particularly in the US, has not yet been
sufficient to warrant adding risk. Seema
joins us now for more. Seema, welcome to
the show. Let's pick up on a market move
that we touched on at the start of this
hour. The gap this opening up between
Brent and WTI. That spread is very wide
this morning. What do you think it
speaks to?
Hi John. Well, I mean, you know, as you
said, it's really a focus on the fact
that Europe is so much more exposed to
this conflict. The economic impact for
Europe could be considerably greater
than what we what we could expect for
the US. And I think a lot of this is is
in relation to to similar to what you're
talking about with this spread opening
up. Um, you know, from a portfolio
perspective, this is really key because
as you know, international markets have
outperformed the US had out for at the
beginning of the year.
Uh, and you've seen a lot of flows into
international markets, uh, moving that
kind of asset allocation to an
overweight, uh, international exposure.
And this is a really uncomfortable time,
I think, for investors. You mentioned
dislocations and potential
opportunities. Has a gap opened up, not
in the US, but in an international
equities that gives you the opportunity
to step in?
Well, certainly, look, there there have
course there has been a gap opened up
and in some ways you could look at that
as an opportunity.
But unfortunately, as we're seeing with
exposures across all markets, it's just
too early to be making any key portfolio
decisions when there is so much
uncertainty on board. I would say that
the the escalation overnight has has
clearly increased the downside risks.
Uh, the base case scenarios of this
being a quite a short-lived attack, uh,
conflict where you see oil prices then
returning back to their their pre-crisis
levels.
That is receding quite quickly. So, I
think at some point there will need to
be reallocations. At the moment though,
investors have always paralyzed, uh
waiting to see how the conflict ends.
And you know, we we saw this certainly
from central from Jerome Powell
yesterday and I expect that to see to
come through from the other central
banks their decisions this week. You
know, Seema, it does seem like to the
degree that people are paralyzed, they
are making some moves and it's back into
US assets. And in part, it speaks to
this divide between Brent and WTI. It
seems like the United States for now is
more insulated to the price shock that
is really rippling through emerging
markets and through Europe. Do you think
that once again, there is a haven
quality to US assets that you also are
disproportionately allocating to?
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, one of the
things that we've seen is the US has
reassessed itself, has reminded everyone
else again that when there are headwinds
and when there are shocks, the US tends
to be the outperformer because it's
considered to be more resilient. Now, of
course, in this situation, this is very
specific uh given that the US is uh an
oil uh an NG exporter. But, I think that
for investors, you know, you're reminded
this is a safe haven. And of course,
with that comes a technology trade. Um
tech which had been beaten up a few
weeks ago has been reminded to investors
that look, when you're going through
tough times, particularly from a macro
perspective, tech is a relatively tight
tech uh sorry, a relatively macro
agnostic asset class. And it's one of
the few asset classes which shows uh a
lot of very strong balance sheet, strong
cash flow. And essentially, that's where
investors want to be focusing on in in
moments of of of difficulty and
turbulence like we're seeing right now.
Seema, are you getting more concerned
about risk assets more broadly because
as you said, the central banks globally
are having trouble responding to what
ultimately could be a stagflationary
shock. Currently, we're looking at a Fed
funds rate that's not pricing in a rate
cut until October 2027.
Right. And we've seen historically that
equity markets, for example, typically
perform worse in a geopolitical crisis
when the Fed or the central banks hike
in response to the to the increase in in
inflation. So, certainly that is what
markets are really looking out for,
which is the way the Fed, the ECB, the
Bank of England, etc. are going to be
moving.
But, you know, at this stage, just like
investors aren't really sure about how
to respond to this, it only seems like
that the same to be same from the
central banks as well, waiting to see
how this pans out, how do the economic
forecasts adjust. There is just so much
uncertainty with this specific conflict
uh that it is making the positioning um
decisions very tough.
>> Seema, do they not know how to respond
or have they been conditioned
differently? Um
Alissa brought up this note from RBC's
Helima Croft, who says, "We think there
may be too much emphasis on the taco
trade." Because Iran could continue
these tactics. Do you think that the
market is starting to wake up that
Donald Trump himself cannot control this
outcome?
Yeah, you know, I think that that is
such an important point. You know, as
you said, the first 2 weeks of the
conflict, the view was that, you know,
we we've seen for many times in the past
that geopolitical conflicts tend to be
very short-lived. That was one. But, the
second point being that the Trump
administration would essentially call
victory early days because of concerns
about affordability and in a midterm
election year. Now, in the last week or
so, we have seen that dynamic shifting
where there is greater understanding
that this may not be the US's ability to
call victory and leave. This is is very
much a an um or this is becoming an area
where Iran can call the shots. And that
is one of the reasons why the
expectations for oil prices to to to
jump right back down again is fading.
And so, we would certainly assume at
this point in the time that oil prices,
energy prices worldwide, will stay
fairly um elevated through the rest of
the year, even if the conflict comes to
an end in the next few days, which at
this point in time seems very unlikely.
Seema, good to see you. Thanks for being
here. Seema Shah there of Principal
Asset Management. So, what have we
learned in the last 24 hours? There is
no central bank circuit breaker coming
anytime soon, and as we witness over the
past few days, this isn't totally in the
president's hands. Someone else has the
control as well. Typically, the playbook
is when you get a disruption, especially
geopolitical, you wait until things get
bad enough and then there's a policy
response. And what you just pointed out
is that there isn't exactly a policy
response that's obvious as there has
been in the past. The Fed is not
necessarily in play here, and frankly,
President Trump may not hold all the
cards to unilaterally turn this off.
>> Oil was surging this morning. Brent
crude specifically equities just about
unchanged stateside rolling over in
Europe. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yuharra has more. Hey,
Yuharra. Good morning, John.
President Trump hoping to pair back
attacks on Middle East energy assets
after Iranian and Israeli strikes on
major gas fields. The president saying
any additional attacks by Iran on
Qatar's LNG facilities would prompt the
US to quote "massively blow up the
entirety of the South Pars gas field."
Fed chair, Jay Powell, isn't going
anywhere. Powell saying he has no plans
to leave his post until the DOJ finishes
investigation into him and the central
bank. Powell adding that he has not yet
made a decision about whether he will
serve his full term as governor, which
runs until 2028.
And we are seeing Micron shares falling
nearly 5% in the pre-market. The company
warning it will need to spend heavily on
production to meet demand. It expects
capital spending to be above $25 billion
this fiscal year. The spending
reflecting the cost of keeping up with
demand for Micron's memory chips,
especially those AI those components
used in AI computing. That's the
Bloomberg brief, John. Yuharra, thank
you. Thanks for the update. More from
Yuharra later this hour. Up next on the
program, pressing on in Iran.
We've defined the objectives of
Operation Epic Fury very clearly, which
is of course to wipe out Iran's uh
ballistic missile arsenal. The United
States military has a lot of
capabilities. They still still do have
tricks up their sleeve. Up next, we'll
get the latest from Washington, D.C.
We'll catch up with Bloomberg's Tanvir
Khan live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
You saw this this morning, you'd have no
idea what's been happening in the
commodity market overnight. Equity
futures just about unchanged on the S&P,
down a tenth of 1% on the Nasdaq, down
by 0.2. Check out the moves in crude.
Brent overnight a high of 119.13
and right now around 115. We've talked
lots about that spread opening up
between Brent and WTI. It is wide wide
wide and got very close to 20 bucks
earlier this morning. These two markets
are diverging at the fastest pace in the
most barring the pandemic in a couple
days they're going back to 2013 at least
at one point. And the argument here is
the European markets are much more
affected by the barrels coming out of
the Middle East. Is there something
more? As Anne Marie was mentioning, is
it going to be export controls? Is there
going to be some sort of restriction?
Oil companies going down to D.C. to talk
with the president. Let's hear what
comes out of that.
>> Some breaking news from IMH in the last
24 hours. We'll get the details of that
in just a moment. Under Savannah's this
morning, pressing on in Iran.
We've defined the objectives of
Operation Epic Fury very clearly. Which
is of course to wipe out Iran's
ballistic missile arsenal. And of course
to ensure that yes, Iran cannot
permanently permanently cannot possess a
nuclear weapon. The president is going
to continue to talk to our allies. The
United States military has a lot of
capabilities. They still still do have
tricks up their sleeve. So, here's the
latest this morning. The White House
looking to cool tensions after attacks
on oil and gas facilities sending energy
prices soaring. President Trump saying
the U.S. knew nothing about an Israeli
attack on an Iranian gas field.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall has more from
the White House. Good morning, Tyler.
Hey John, good morning. Well, the
message from the White House is clear.
They are seeking de-escalation after we
saw this surge in attacks on energy
infrastructure overnight. And while
President Trump sought to distance the
US from Israel's attack on Iran's
largest natural gas field, a person
familiar with the matter does tell
Bloomberg News that the US was aware of
the operation, though did not
participate. President Trump now vowing
that Israel will not hit any energy
infrastructure targets in Iran going
forward unless Iran continues to hit the
energy infrastructure targets of its
neighbors. Of course, after we saw Iran
release this list of potential targets
yesterday, we saw the country hit
multiple projects in Saudi Arabia, the
UAE, Kuwait, and Qatar. As you know and
have been covering, that included quote
extensive damage on the world's largest
LNG export facility. But this White
House has suggested that it is now
reluctant to hit that infrastructure
that could impact global energy
supplies. Even after President Trump
reiterated a threat earlier this week,
we could see attacks on energy
infrastructure on Kharg Island, where
nearly nine out of every 10 barrels of
Iranian crude flow through. And data and
imagery shows for the most part, those
loadings have continued unabated. But
all of this escalation is really
complicating the White House's efforts
to help curb what has been that surge in
energy costs and bring them down for US
consumers. Just yesterday, of course,
the White House moving to issue that
60-day waiver for the Jones Act,
essentially trying to make it cheaper to
move energy products between US ports.
John, as Amarie was reporting, we are
expecting those oil executives here at
the White House today. I'll put one
other meeting on your radar as we see
this administration try to find some
potential solutions. President Trump
next week is expected to meet with
biofuel makers amid a push from some
farm state Republicans to get a waiver
for higher content ethanol gasoline to
hit the market.
>> Son of Candle with the latest from
outside the White House. Tyler, thank
you. More from Tyler in the next hour.
This headline just crossed moments ago.
A media report suggesting the Iranian
response to the damage to the South Pars
gas field
is not complete. The attack is not
complete.
That's an important line coming out of
Iran this morning following the
president's statement a number of hours
ago. It means they're going to continue
and you have to ask yourself a question.
Does this mean the president is now
boxed in cuz he said energy
infrastructure needs to be off limits
and we will respond with a bigger force
if it's not. Well, Iran right now and
the IRGC is saying it's not. We're going
to continue.
>> I want to understand where exactly is
Saudi Arabia, Qatar really fall in here
because they said that as you pointed
out, this is a red line that's crossed.
They're not happy with Israel. I'm sure
they're not that happy with the United
States. At what point do they get
involved as well given the fact that
their infrastructure potentially is at
risk? Let's get into the conversation
with Maha Yahya of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace. Maha,
welcome to the program. Have we opened
up a new front in this war?
Good morning and thank you for having
me. Um, it's not a new front, but we've
moved from the kind of
energy sorry political
military and security front to expand on
the energy front. What I mean by this is
much of the targeting
by Israel and the United States was
focused primarily on political and
military and security targets. Iran
decided to weaponize the global economy
closing the Straits of Hormuz.
So, it up the ante.
And this is its response to the attack
on its own gas fields.
I mean, we're on an escalatory path.
And what Iran is saying, I'm fighting
for existence. I will do what it takes.
And if I'm going to go down, you're all
going down with me. I mean, that's the
bottom line. From Iran now, it's not
just that the energy cannot pass, it's
that we will not allow you to produce
any more of this energy. So, what is the
off-ramp from here? Cuz it's clear from
the United States, even though we have
reporting that the US knew about this
Israeli attack going towards South Pars.
The president of the United States is
clearly trying to take the tone down a
notch. He wants energy facilities taken
off the target list. Is that even
possible at this point?
I think it is possible, but Iran is
going to try and extract a high price
for that, or a price for that.
For Iran or this Iranian regime, let's
just distinguish, for this regime
itself, it really is a fight for
survival. They see this as an
existential conflict. And what they want
is, at the end of the day, whatever
ceasefire, whatever arrangements are put
in place, A, they will not be targeted
again, so it's not the lull between two
wars. And B, economic sanctions relief,
we we all know
how much I mean, how much trouble
they're in on the economic front. They
have no fiscal space really to address
the needs of their own population.
And they want to maintain some sort of
regional leverage. I mean, these are
basically their demands. And
unfortunately, by getting into this war,
by launching this war, what Israel and
the US has done is given
Iran the space to use its leverage. It's
discovered that perhaps, you know,
having control of the over the Hormuz
Straits is more powerful than having a
nuclear weapon in some ways. It has a
much bigger global impact. Given the
fact that we have seen broadly some
serious figures within the regime killed
by the Israeli strikes. If the United
States was to have a diplomatic
conversation with Iran, who would it be?
That's the big question. I mean, the
killing of Ali Larijani in particular,
basically ended the potential of
speaking with someone who has a long
history.
And the man was brutal. He was
everything you want to say he was. But
at the end of the day, he was one of
their longest serving diplomats and he
was someone quite well known and known
quantity if you like.
Now they'll be dealing with perhaps
somewhat less experienced individuals
and perhaps more hardline individuals.
Ghalibaf comes to to to you know to my
mind.
He's the head of the Iranian parliament
and he's a pretty powerful figure but
quite
hardline if you like.
Saeed Jalili who's going to be taking
over as we understand
as we understand from
from the Iranian side, he's going to
take over Ali Larijani's spot. So
it's a big question. Let me put it this
way and it's just made things a lot more
difficult. We have to leave it there.
It's good to see you. Thanks for making
time for us. A tense moment in your
region. Maha Yahya there at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace. From
New York City, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
Escalation in the Middle East close to
120 on Brent overnight right now about
114. Crude higher. Brent crude higher.
Up by close to 6% WTI down by 0.3. A big
gap opening up close to 20 bucks earlier
on this morning. That's the story in
crude and look at the gap opening up in
equities. The US versus Europe. Equity
futures on the S&P down by about a tenth
of 1%. Check out Europe. Look at the
European stock story so far building
today. Down on the DAX by 2.3% on the
Euro Stoxx 50 by two percentage points.
The international story being upended by
a major rally in Brent crude and in gas
prices, too.
>> Yeah, gas prices in particular given the
fact that the Qatar field is now offline
and potentially suffering from extensive
damage. This accounts for about a fifth
of supplies and is one of the main
suppliers to the euro region since
Russia has been excluded from their
repertoire. Question here, how do they
manage this? How do they afford to pay
for some of the expensive bills that
people are going to be experiencing this
winter? And how does the ECB respond?
We're going to hear from them later this
morning.
>> Good luck to the ECB. If the news
conference with Chairman Powell was
somewhat hawkish, what choice is
President Lagarde got? Chairman Powell
choosing to anchor inflation
expectations in that press conference
yesterday, helping to send yields higher
at the front end by close to 10 basis
points and up another three so far this
morning. 380, breaking through levels we
haven't seen since last summer. And they
have the luxury of saying that a rate
hike is not in their base case and that
nobody is really considering that as a
serious proposition in the near term.
Does the ECB have that luxury? Right now
you've got a market that's pricing in
two rate hikes from the European Central
Bank. Can they come out and say a rate
hike is not on the table?
>> Three hours away from the opening bell.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Hi Yuh-Hwa Hasmore. Hi
Yuh-Hwa. Hi John. It's a story we've
heard time and time again this earning
season. Companies getting punished for
spending big and Micron is the latest
example. Yes, demand is booming for its
memory chips but the revenue guidance
coming in well above analyst
expectations but it's coming at a cost.
The company saying it will spend more
than $25 billion in CapEx this fiscal
year and that is sending shares lower
5.6%.
We turn to gold stocks all lower today
as we continue to see a slide in gold
prices for a seventh straight day. And
the story here is inflation with of
course oil prices uh surging. Then you
have the the hotter than expected PPI
print we got yesterday. And of course
fetch your J. Powell saying no rate cuts
until inflation comes down. So all that
weighing on the price of gold and
weighing on on names like Newmont down 7
and 1/4%. And we end on a positive note
with a Five Below. Shares are up 6.3%.
The company delivering a beat and a
raise saying that it's seeing strong
spending across all income levels with
shoppers, especially young ones, still
spending on its discretionary items. But
as a value retailer, it could also be a
story of consumers trading down. Or in
my opinion, children just having too
much discretionary income. John.
Spending someone else's tax refunds.
That's what's happening. Yeah, Harriett
Harriett, thank you. The latest there on
some of the retail stories. And I'll
rate out this morning, European natural
gas prices surging following an attack
on the world's largest export plant in
Qatar. The site hit by an Iranian
missile causing extensive damage.
President Trump saying the US would
retaliate if the facilities are struck
once again. Elsewhere, Fed chair J.
Powell saying he has no plans to leave
the central bank until the DOJ finishes
its investigation into him and the
central bank. Powell adding he hasn't
decided if he'll serve out his full term
as a Fed governor. And finally, HSBC
considering major cuts to its workforce
due to the rise of AI. The cuts would
focus on non-client facing roles and
could impact as many as 20,000 jobs or
about 10% of its staff.
>> Yeah, and this is a plan that they're
going to develop in the next 3 to 5
years. It's not definite yet, but it
comes amid already a real shakeup at
HSBC. Two points. Number one, how much
you're going or banks and other
companies going to be using artificial
intelligence as a way to curtail some of
their staff in general because some of
these cuts might come in the form of
selling some units. So, this isn't
exactly a wholesale discarding of them
in the in for the sake of AI. On the
other hand, right now Bloomberg
Intelligence is expecting about 200,000
positions in the banking industry to get
withdrawn from the industry as a result
of AI. So, definitely feeding into the
fear that's out there.
>> the story to keep on tracking. We're
tracking this as well. Bank of America's
Capital Markets conference underway in
Paris. Joining us now is Bloomberg's
France Lein Laqua with a special guest.
Good morning, France.
Good morning, John. I'm so happy to
speak to Michael Hartnett of Bank of
America. Michael, thank you for joining
us. Look, you've said the markets are
starting to resemble the run-up to '08.
What do you mean and what are you
looking at?
Well, one big difference of course with
'08 is that the oil shock there was
demand led. You know, it wasn't supply
led. It was China, India. So, yeah, you
definitely have an environment where oil
prices are rising to, you know, high
levels. You know, back then, you know,
the similarity perhaps is that you had
these, you know, credit tremors sort of
bubbling away in the in the in the
background. So, that that's the
similarity and certainly the price
action year-to-date is is is fairly
similar. But,
you know, the supply shocks are more
sort of '73, '79, 2022. And I think that
the market generally has been coming
into this thinking
it's a supply shock. It's short-term. It
and therefore it's going to be over
pretty quickly. And I think that's the
kind of revision that the market's going
through in the last couple of days.
>> complacency or are they too complacent?
At what point does it start feeding
through earnings?
Well, I mean, it it it it will feed into
earnings without a question. But, but I
think that coming into this, you know,
people are long equities. That they're
hedged, but they are long. But,
I wouldn't say it's complacency, but
that everyone thought it was a short
war, yeah? Everyone thought it would be
folded earlier and, you know, there's an
election for Trump to win.
Uh, you know, the market's too big to
fail. You know, we've seen this script
before. We don't want to sell or So, I
think what's happened in the last couple
of days is kind of like the people
people have said, "I don't want to sell
because the policy will change, right?"
And it's now actually we're going to
have to sell to change the policy. Do
you see what I mean? So, it's kind of
like it's flip-flopped a little bit like
that. But Michael, I mean what I what
was I thought was striking is that the
market was pricing in some kind of short
sort of resolution in the shorter term,
but actually if you read the geopolitics
and if you read all the transcripts,
that just wasn't there. So, is the
market looking for something? Yes, I
mean look look the market's looking for
an off-ramp, the market's looking for a
ceasefire, the market's looking for an
end. The market's desperate for the oil
price to not move in an exponential way
to the upside, but actually, you know,
back down because
you know, the other thing that's been
happening before this is that you've
been having this tightening of financial
conditions, yeah? And and so, the market
needs an easing of of financial
conditions, but the Fed finds it tough
to deliver that if oil's at, you know,
150, 200, you know. It it but I think
ultimately you will get that easing of
financial conditions, but this obviously
delays it somewhat. What what do you
think is most being mispriced right now?
Well, I think that that if you look at
the, you know, the broader markets, I
would say that equity is still look
rich, you know, relative to where they
could do in a genuine shock where the
Fed is, you know, not able to cut
interest rates. I think that we've gone
on record saying 6,600, you probably
want to start nibbling at the S&P. I'd
be buying the 30-year Treasury above 5%.
I'd probably be fading the the DXY
dollar index above 100, but as I said
earlier, the risk right now is that kind
of those numbers need to get worse
before they get better because you look
at the Bank of America fund manager
survey last week,
people are not sure.
You know, they're still they're still
bullish certainly on equities.
>> So, do you think oil does go to 150 and
possibly 200? Those are the levels You
No, they'll go they'll No, I mean that
that that those are levels predicated
basically on on this is ended in weeks,
not months. If it if it's protracted or
you get an additional sort of 20, 30,
40% No, those levels are breaking.
You're going to have to wait for much
level lower levels to engage certainly
in stocks. I mean what's the risk of a
policy mistake by central banks? I know
you've also said there was a you know, a
hike in 2008 by the ECB that you said
was the worst possible policy mistake.
Yeah, I don't look I always have this
sort of catchphrase sort of markets
don't panic when policy makers and
central bankers start panicking. I I I
don't think the Fed I don't think the
idea of the Fed is going to hike I think
is is nonsense. I don't I don't think
that's going to happen.
Um
>> Will they cut?
I don't think they're going to
I think they will eventually cut. And
and again, I think that you know, Bill
said with a high oil price they can't
cut.
Six months later they cut with the stock
market at all time high and corporate
bonds at all time high. So
the but this is the history that we've
all got in us, the DNA. We're all the QE
genera we're all Gen QE. Do you know
what I mean? And in that that we're all
so used to central banks wading in
whenever there's a market, you know,
problem and hey ho off we go again. So I
think again, maybe you have to sort of
like
break that expectation a little bit
first, but I think no doubt the the the
puck now in the markets is moving like
we need an easing of financial
conditions, whether it's oil, whether
it's yields, whether it's Fed, whether
it's the dollar. And and we're going to
go down until the policy makers hear
that and deliver that. So where do you
put your money right now?
Well, I think broader terms as I said,
the I I think the consumer
ironically
is what I would be nibbling at at this
particular moment. No one loves the
consumer. Oil's up, you know,
unemployment's rising, you know, all the
but to me the consumer stocks are the
ones that have really discounted
stagflation. Yeah? And And if you think
post Iran, you know, what is Trump got
to do? He's got to win the midterms. And
And you're not going to win the midterms
by
you know, you're going to win the
midterms by addressing affordability
really
he has to pivot to that just you know,
in a really dramatic way. And again, I
think that affordability
you know, lower income consumer that
everyone dislikes at that moment, that's
probably where as a trade from a trading
perspective, I think the best you know,
trading opportunity is. Longer term,
however, I still think international
commodities, you know, you know, these
are the true sort of secular bull
markets of an inflationary 2020s.
Michael, thank you so much. Michael
Hartnett there from Bank of America. I'm
going to send it back to you, John, in
New York and we'll have plenty more
threat of the day here from Paris.
Looking forward to it. Thank you very
much, Fran. Appreciate it. Thank you
very much. My favorite phrase of the
morning so far, Gen QE.
Conditioned, right? Conditioned. From
the QE we've seen over the last decade
plus
to keep buying this market because the
Fed will step in if things go bad and it
feels very, very different in the last
day or so. Yeah, we're all generation
QE. When things get bad, hey, Papa Fed,
let's get some help here. And Papa Fed's
saying, this isn't our bag. And guess
what? Papa Trump's saying, I don't know
if I can or that's what people are
implying. And so suddenly the market is
trying to digest what that means.
>> help is Mama ECB going to be a little
bit later this morning? Well, probably
not so much. And then you're going to
have the generation QE over in Europe
that's going to be friend.
Got their own problems over there. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yuhaira has more. Hi, Yuhaira. Hi, John.
French President Emmanuel Macron calling
for strikes against energy and water
infrastructure in the Middle East to
stop. In a post on X, Macron writing,
"Civilian populations and their
essential needs as well as the security
of energy supplies must be protected
from military escalation."
Meanwhile, India is sending additional
warships to the Middle East to ensure
the safe passage of its vessels. India
anticipating that Iran may allow more of
its fuel tankers to exit the Strait of
Hormuz. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the Indian Navy is deploying
over half a dozen warships as a
precautionary measure.
And we are seeing yen strengthening
after the Bank of Japan announced it was
holding rates steady due to uncertainty
surrounding the war in the Middle East.
The BOJ decision matching the
expectations of all economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The Central Bank voted 8
to 1 to hold while pledging to raise
rates if its price forecast materialize
materializes. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John. Yohai, thank you. Thanks
for joining us. Up next on the program,
the Fed chair digging in.
I have no intention of leaving the board
until the investigation is well and
truly over with transparency and
finality. On the question of whether I
will then continue to serve as a
governor after my term ends and after
the investigation is over, I have not
made that decision yet. We'll get the
view of Krishna Guha of Evercore next on
the program live from New York City this
morning. Good morning to all. This is
Bloomberg.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Your day ahead looks like
this. Two Central Bank decisions left in
focus. One in the next hour the next few
hours we'll hear from the Bank of
England. Then later on this morning 9:15
Eastern time you'll hear from the ECB.
If you're waking up stateside that time
is slightly different to what we used to
the time gap between Europe isn't what
it was that will flip back in next week
or so. So, 9:15 for the ECB. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 shaping up as
follows. Futures this morning negative
just a tenth of 1% on the Nasdaq down by
0.3. Much greater losses over in Europe
off the back of this. Brent crude
significantly higher than WTI. Brent at
114, WTI at 96.90. Brent up by close to
6%. This is an impact that's going to
really affect the European region that
much more than the United States. And
that's playing out in both equity
markets as well as in the Brent versus
WTI gap. I just wonder what the ECB can
say at this point because ultimately the
Fed told us we're out of the game. So,
can they really do anything about this
when it's not necessarily theirs to
print molecules? I think you both said
this yesterday on the Fed show. And
great job with the special. The fact
that there was a lot of humility from J.
Powell yesterday. We just do not know
where this story goes. And they need to
wait and see. So much that he said maybe
we should just scrap the SEP because it
is really hard to forecast in this
environment.
>> there was also a lot of snark in central
bank speak. I think that was some real
pushback to the president in this White
House yesterday.
This is not my circus and I'm not
stepping in. And he pushed back across
the board several times.
>> Yeah, until this investigation is well
and truly over I'll stay here. And until
you have another Fed chair, well, the
pro forma
policy is that I shall stay on this Fed
chair. And guess what? We're just trying
to dodge the balls as they come in and
do our best.
>> to the bond market. Two's, ten's, 30's
at the front end of the yield curve up
by close to 10 basis points in
yesterday's session at a number three.
380. 380 at the front end of the yield
curve. That's the highest yield we've
seen going back to July of last year.
Think about all the rate cuts we've had.
380. This is a market pricing out
easing. So, now basically the two years
in line with the upper end of Fed funds
that range. To believe that yield goes
higher from here, you've got to think
there's a risk of hiking interest rates
at the Federal Reserve. That's a much
higher bar now, I think for this Fed and
ultimately for this market.
>> Jay Powell said that yesterday. He said
ultimately that's not in our table,
that's not in our bag of tricks right
now that we're going to consider. That
could change, right? I mean ultimately
if this is a data dependent and subject
dependent type of Federal Reserve, well,
you have to imagine that they're going
to have to consider everything,
especially if the rest of the world is
doing the same. My question is, how much
does the ECB and the Bank of England
drive the bus and how much does the US
have to respond? Ultimately there's so
much unknown, it's very hard to game
out. Under Savannah's this morning, the
Fed chair staying put.
If my successor is not confirmed by the
end of my term as chair, I would serve
as chair pro tem until he is confirmed.
I have no intention of leaving the board
until the investigation is well and
truly over with transparency and
finality. On the question of whether I
will then continue to serve as a
governor after my term ends and after
the investigation is over, I have not
made that decision yet. So, here's the
latest this morning, the Fed chair Jay
Powell vowing to stay on at the Central
Bank until the DOJ investigation into
him comes to an end. Joining us now to
discuss this Krishna Guha of Evercore.
Now, Krishna, welcome first of all.
We've asked this question a number of
times in the last 24 hours. I'd love
your perspective on it. Does that
provide consistency or invite
controversy?
I think Powell has made explicit
something that I think was very clear to
anyone who knew him. There is simply no
way that he would even consider
leaving the Fed under the cloud of this
investigation.
Not really because of what it means for
him, but because of the precedent that
it would create
that a future Fed official, even Fed
chair, could be on the face of it driven
out or at least helped to the door by a
DOJ investigation.
This line here though, I think is this
interesting Krishna.
The first line from the chairman was
that if my successor is not confirmed by
the end of my term as chair, I'll stay
on. That makes sense. That's continuity.
Market wants to see that. The second
line was I have no intention of leaving
the board until the investigation is
well and truly over with transparency
and finality. So ultimately, a lot of
people will view that as defending
central bank independence. Granted. The
third point's interesting though, and
this is the bit where I'm intrigued
Krishna, this line at the moment. On the
question of whether I will continue to
serve as a governor after my term ends
and after the investigation is over, I
have not made the decision on that yet.
What's the value of putting that out
there?
Well, I think you're absolutely right
that that was a very strong statement by
Powell and as you'll recall, it wasn't
something he was forced to say because
of questioning. It's something he
volunteered. He had it written down. He
knew he wanted to say that. Look, um
there's there's a sort of narrow sense
in which we can interpret that in a
wider sense. The narrow sense is that uh
Powell doesn't want to look like he's
offering a deal, if you drop the
investigation, I walk. Right? That's
almost as bad as looking like you're
being hounded out by the investigation
itself. So there's a narrow way in which
we might interpret that language, but
I'm inclined to read it also in a
broader way.
That Powell is telling us that he is
seriously considering staying on as a
governor, as a regular governor, at
least for some time after the end of his
term as chair, even if that
investigation is dropped. That is not
something I would have really bought
into uh a few months ago, but I think
the DOJ investigation has backfired
terribly on the administration and I
think that it feels like Powell is
inclined to stay, possibly either way at
this juncture. I'm struck by the
historical parallel and we were talking
about this yesterday. The last person
who was Fed chair who then stayed on as
governor was Marriner Eccles. His term
ended as Fed chair in 1948 and he stayed
on for a number of years after that.
This was following the Bretton Woods
Accord, it followed the war, it followed
a highly tumultuous period in central
banking history. Are we marking another
period which is sort of setting off a
new era of for central banks where they
have less power or frankly they don't
necessarily drive the bus which
generation QE as Michael Harnett just
said is over.
Well, certainly you know, the the the
note we published on the Fed meeting
yesterday said specifically what you've
just mentioned that look this was
actually
in the circumstances a pretty dovish Fed
meeting and it came with bullish
upgrades to growth forecast, but we
wrote the Fed is not driving the bus.
Now, that's in the specific context of a
war and a war that generates a very
large shock to energy prices.
I'd be wary of making a generalized
statement that central banks don't
matter anymore. I think that would be
I'm not saying you're saying that but I
think that would be
far too sweeping, but certainly in the
here and now this is a context where the
central banks are to a very large degree
in reactive mode. They are not setting
the agenda. They are not shaping where
we are going. Does it feel to Powell
potentially like this is a complex
moment both in terms of the world and in
terms of the Fed's institutional
situation where it may be
advisable for him to stay for a while. I
guess that's certainly something that
you know, he will be considering here.
One question I think is whether it would
be a disaster for Chair Wash if Powell
stayed on. Not clear to me that's the
case. I'm not sure they're particularly
close to say the least, but Powell is
underlying pretty dovish and there are
versions of the world where Powell
staying on as a regular governor uh
could ultimately help bridge to getting
one or two cuts done later this year
under Walsh.
Just real quick here. How high is the
bar right now for the Fed to hike rates
at some point?
Well, the the the term some point
obviously is elastic, right? But I think
the the bar to the Fed hiking rates,
let's say this year, I think is
incredibly high. It's not literally
impossibly high, but I think it's very,
very high.
Um you know, look, we've we have an
economy that faces growth as well as uh
inflation risks, but one where, you
know, in the baseline case, uh both
growth and core inflation in the US
ought to be relatively uh relatively uh
resilient as in limited effect uh
compared with the other economies in the
rest of the world. So, it's not obvious
at this juncture a major shift uh in the
direction of policy is appropriate. The
market obviously has been uh pushing
back and shaving Fed rate cuts. That
seems like the vector that is in play at
the moment. I tell you, we still think
uh that it's possible to get to a couple
of cuts this year under Chair Walsh. So,
I think he's more dovish than the market
right now. Uh we think that old Fed
signaled yesterday they're still
inclined to cut, but one rather than
two. And the question is, could the data
plus the new chair potentially certainly
lock in that one and maybe get them to
two? Krishna, good to see you. Thanks
for jumping on for us. Krishna Guha
there of Evercore. If the chairman stays
on after another chair has been
confirmed and the DOJ investigation goes
away, I'm sorry, that is incredibly
controversial.
I'm sure it'll be discussed. I'm sure
we'll get a true social post on it
potentially, which is actually
interesting. He's been been quiet.
>> Forget the president. This is Chairman
Powell. It'd be controversial for him to
decide to do that.
>> Especially given the timing, and that's
a key question. Coming up, Dan Skelly of
Morgan Stanley, Edward Fishman of
Columbia University, Samantha Dart of
Goldman Sachs, the former Fed Governor
Bessie Duke, the second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
We don't know the off-ramp. We don't
know the end point.
>> I'm increasingly nervous the market's
not pricing this in.
>> The market's not giving us much of a
buying opportunity, quite honestly.
>> I don't think we've priced in peak fear
yet.
>> goes on for a long period of time, we
would probably expect a significantly
lower move in risk assets.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. Some
calm in equity seats futures following
yesterday's declines. We're down by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P and the Nasdaq
down by 0.3. In the commodity market,
some big moves on Brent versus WTI.
Brent crude at 114, close to 120
overnight, much higher than WTI at 97. A
big gap opening up between the two.
That's pushing European equities so much
lower in today's session relative to
what we're seeing stateside. The energy
shock in Europe is far exceeding
anything that the US is potentially
poised for. That said, this gap is
raising questions about how long you can
get a divergence like this. I mean, this
is the widest divergence outside of the
pandemic going back to 2014. And you're
looking at this and you're saying, okay,
does that mean the US is really going to
divorce its market from the rest of the
world? I also wonder what kind of policy
response you can get. What can you do to
bring prices down other than end the
conflict in Iran and get production back
going? Well, I think the spread just
shows that the US does have more
flexibility. One, we are a exporter, and
the president, they are weighing, they
are discussing potentially banning
exports of products. Now, what does that
mean for price on the global market?
Actually, potentially prices will go up,
but that is a lever that this
administration is discussing, and
potentially they're going to discuss it
today. Oil executives will be in
Washington, D.C., and they're meeting
with the Vice President, J.D. Vance.
Most central bank decisions coming up
later on this morning, the Bank of
England, look out for that, the ECB
following that one. There is no central
bank circuit breaker to this crisis in
the Middle East. That's the takeaway in
the last 24 hours, Jeff Currie of
Carlyle on this program. What was the
big headline from him? You can't print
molecules. You cannot print barrels of
crude. And that's really what we heard
from Fed Chair Jay Powell, just trying
to, as we were saying yesterday, play
dodgeball, because ultimately they don't
have a lot of control here. Given that,
where does the market's confidence come
from? At one point it was Taco, but as
Helima Croft said, well, Trump doesn't
hold all the keys to necessarily
de-escalate, given the fact that Iran
faces existential risk and wants to
impose a real premium on any kind of
conflict ever happening again like this.
>> And I think the last 24 hours shows
that. We are entering a new phase. It's
not just military facilities that are
now targets, it's energy facilities, and
the IRGC is saying that yesterday's
strike on its South Pars gas field,
quote, is underway and not yet complete.
Their response is not yet complete. And
this comes after the President of the
United States says, if this continues, I
believe the words were, we will
massively blow up the entirety of that
field, and given all the strength and
power that Iran has never witnessed
before. So, Trump is sort of putting
himself in a box right now, and the
Iranians are saying, we are not done
yet, and you see that playing out as we
speak across the Middle East.
>> There is a very real risk here, and you
get that sense waking up early this
morning, that we're on the edge and very
close to an escalatory spiral that no
one has control of. That's what it felt
like overnight, waking up to that post
from the president following the attacks
on energy infrastructure. I keep
thinking about what Jeff Currie was
talking about, which is the people who
are in the physical market are freaking
out. And you see that reflected in the
price, $40, $50 gap between that the
physical price and the uh the paper
price. He's saying, "Well, the paper
market's got to catch up." Other people
saying, "Well, the physical market's
just, you know, affected by life." And I
ultimately, as this goes on for a longer
period of time, the paper market has a
greater chance of catching up to the
physical. Let's get you catch up on this
morning. Coming up this hour, Dan Skelly
of Morgan Stanley as equities retreat.
Samantha Della Goleman Sachs as Iran
attacks on energy pushes crude higher.
And the former Fed governor, Betsy Duke,
as Chairman Powell vows to ride out the
DOJ probe. We begin this hour with
stocks losing ground as Brent crude
surges. Dan Skelly of Morgan Stanley
writing, "Despite the Iran conflict,
we're still bullish on equities for the
full year." Dan joins us now for more.
Dan, good morning. Good to Good morning,
John. Great to see you.
>> What is the anchor of that bullish view
in a moment like this? You got to recall
that prior to the Iran conflict, which I
don't want to diminish at all, we had a
really solid exit rate with
fourth-quarter earnings, right? And we
saw earnings growing double digit again,
and we saw importantly a broadening out.
Beyond that, we still have healthy
corporate balance sheets and healthy
consumer balance sheets for the most
part. So, that's the that's the anchor.
Are the bets getting beaten up by this
move in crude? Uh they are to a certain
extent, but let's recall we still think
we're in this uh K-shaped uh economy and
and population effect where uh obviously
the middle and lower-income folks are
going to deal with higher energy prices,
but so much of the wealth and spending
in the country is still dominated by the
upper rung of the K that maybe that
helps us get through. At the same time,
can you see momentum really continue if
you start to see certain deals getting
pulled from the market, certain M&A
transactions getting delayed, postponed
indefinitely, a sense that markets are
getting a little bit nervous and they're
not going to necessarily operate the way
that they have for the first 2 months of
2026? Good morning, Lisa. And no doubt,
I think you are going to see uncertainty
start to weigh on corporate confidence,
on pipelines. Having said that, at
Morgan Stanley, we clearly have a unique
perspective on that particular topic and
we're still still hearing at this moment
enthusiasm for capital market cycles M&A
IPOs etc. I love that. The idea that I
come with a big cloud over my head. But
isn't the world falling? I am just
wondering though if you pair this with
the idea that central banks are going to
step in. That potentially not going to
get a rate cut this year. The first rate
cut now being priced in for October 2027
for the Federal Reserve. The ECB might
signal that they're raising rates today.
Not necessarily today, but later this
year.
Doesn't that curtail some of the
enthusiasm? This idea that we can live
on free money forever? Absolutely. So
two things. First off, on the monetary
side, we actually thought originally
that if there was a risk to this year,
because we already had a solid baseline
coming into the year, it was a little
bit of a be careful what you wish for if
we run it too hot. Remember run it hot?
That was the risk a few months back. And
look, sometimes you're right for the
wrong reasons and we got the
inflationary shock from this exogenous
event with the Iran. But as we were just
talking about with John, we do think the
economy given its unique drivers today
is more resilient than ever before. Is
there an opportunity in the bond market
opening up at the moment? It's funny you
mention that Art. So our asset
allocation committee is thinking very
hard about that at the moment. And look,
you're up above four and a quarter on
the long end today.
Um you know, we do think there is room
to take a little bit of duration on
here. Okay. It's not particularly
exciting, but I'm thinking more about
the end of the curve. I'm thinking more
at twos right now at 3.81. The upper end
of the Fed's target fund rate is 3.75.
So we're through that level. To believe
we're going materially higher here at
the front end of the yield curve, you've
got to believe they're going to hike
interest rates. That feels like a really
high bar to meet this morning.
>> an excellent point John. We don't we
don't see them hiking this year. So if
you want to be even more conservative,
you can kind of go to that belly of the
curve too. Even like the five to seven
part of the curve. When do you think a
hike could become a real conversation
stateside?
Uh as long as the Iran conflict is going
on with this kind of whack-a-mole tweets
and uncertainty day-to-day. I don't I
don't think you're going to see anyone
thinking about hikes anytime soon. But
potentially
doesn't this become, as long as Iran
continues, a hike becomes more likely
because inflation could spiral? P-
Possibly, but also on the on the other
hand, you have a potential for a growth
scare as well. So, I think that's a very
fine uh needle to thread. Having said
all that, let's step back and like
everyone else, I don't have a crystal
ball on Iran, but I think the the
necessary analogue to consider at the
moment is Russia-Ukraine, where to be
fair, from a military perspective, you
had probably much more evenness in terms
of the the uh military uh competition.
And secondly, you got to think about the
motives in the game. In terms of Putin's
motives, which are unabated today still.
Uh obviously, with the midterms hanging
out there this fall, it's unlikely, we
think, that this is going to persist for
so much longer.
>> that's based on the case that Trump has
a bigger say in this than the Iranians
do. But that's not the case. This is
almost equal. Trump even admitted it.
takes two to tango. Do you think the
market is too conditioned by this idea
of taco, the way Cleve Mcroaf outlined
today in her note? Uh I I think,
frankly, when you look at taco over the
last year or so, it's you can't blame
the market for going to that conclusion
because we had tariff taco, we had China
taco, we had iPhone taco. So, we had a
full buffet of taco over the last year
or so. So, you really can't blame the
market. But having said that, I think
the one nuance to your argument is that
at the end of the day, Iran's eventually
going to run out of military
capabilities. In the meantime, the other
pillar of support that's been coming
from uh the United States has been the
tech story and this idea that that will
save all. To some degree, some of the
Fed's forecasts even are underpinned by
the idea of more productivity coming
from the artificial intelligence sector.
How solid is that, given the fact that
Micron delivered amazing earnings last
night and is getting totally beaten up
because they're investing more than
people had expected? T- Totally, and
people are being reminded of the fact
that that particular company is a more
cyclical hyper kind of beta type stock.
What a What a surprise. We're reminded
of that finally after frankly running up
two three acts over the last, you know,
several years as you know. So, look,
what we would say is we are still
candidly benefiting from the post-COVID
productivity wave. That was automation,
yes, but really connectivity and
communication zooming at all hours of
the day. We haven't yet started to see
the full benefit of AI productivity. But
to be fair, when I talk to my colleagues
in Morgan Stanley research and we scrape
the earnings transcripts, we are seeing
quarter-over-quarter sequential specific
use cases of AI in a lot of companies.
Does it encourage you when you see HSBC
considering maybe cutting 10% of its
staff as a result of artificial
intelligence? Does that make you excited
to buy shares of a company like that,
the Blocks of the world? Or does that
raise alarm bells that they'd be
announcing it about what else is going
on that they feel the need to talk and
sort of pre
pre
template some sort of layoff structure?
Yeah, so that is the million-dollar
question in terms of like the long-run
effects. I think I don't mean to be a a
double-handed economist, but I think in
the short run, the markets got to pay
attention to earnings revisions. And I
think in the short run, it's going to be
enough to for investors, equity
investors to be excited. But in the long
run, to your point, what are the
socioeconomic and the bigger cultural
implications of bigger job losses? We
frankly don't know at this stage.
>> First thing I looked at when I saw the
story, what's the stock doing? It's down
3%. It's not a Block story. I thought
that was interesting this morning that
HSBC is not rallying off the back of
that. Yeah, is this a question about how
their
reframing is going right now given the
fact that they've done a lot of
restructuring already? That this
potentially could be selling certain
businesses. Does this signal that it's
not going exactly as planned or they've
got more to do? These are the kind of
things we'd be talking about if we
weren't talking about the Middle East.
You've said this a few times. The other
one, number one, private credit. I got a
message from a Bloomberg subscriber
moments ago, surprised that that didn't
come up in the news conference with
Chairman Powell just yesterday. It's
just amazing. It's frustrating for a lot
of people because when you talk to
investors, they're asked about private
credit, they're not asked about Iran.
Nobody's talking about Iran when you go
to sort of investor meetings because
it's not analyzable. There's nothing to
say. But you can say a lot about private
credit, you could analyze it and dig in.
You can say a lot about AI, you can dig
in. There's nothing to dig into here,
which is the reason why so many people
are saying ignore it. Were you surprised
then yesterday? It was surprising and
candidly on our front from the wealth
management side, we are hearing a lot of
private credit concerns for good reason.
And and look, at the end of the day as
our credit folks have said across the
firm, we continue to see it more as
idiosyncratic, less systemic.
We would note that the lending between
the interconnection between the
financial sponsors and the banks, less
than 2% of banks lending. So we do think
while messy and while you're going to go
through this continued period of
catharsis, it's not going to be a
systemic issue. I'm not down playing
what you just said, but I'd be shocked
if someone from a bank said anything
different. Dan, thank you, sir.
>> Your point. Dan Skelly of Morgan
Stanley. I shouldn't have asked. Anyway,
all right. Let's get an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hey,
Yahara. Hi, John. President Trump
calling for restraint on attacks
targeting Middle East energy assets
after Iranian and Israeli strikes on
major gas on major gas fields. The
president saying any additional attacks
by Iran on Qatar's LNG facilities would
prompt the US to quote massively blow up
the entirety of the South Pars gas
fields.
Vice President J.D. Vance and other key
administration officials preparing to
meet with oil executives today. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the meeting
will focus on ways to lower surging fuel
prices. According to AAA, the national
average price for a gallon of gasoline
has surged by nearly 80 cents per gallon
since the war began.
And Eli Lilly's experimental weight loss
shot seeing major success in its latest
trial. The GLP-1 helped diabetic
patients lose over 15%
of their body weight more than any other
drug currently on the market, yet shares
are lower. Lilly sees it as an option
for people with more severe obesity who
may need a stronger treatment than the
company's Zepbound shots or Novo
Nordisk's Wegovy.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohai, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, Raining Again,
Energy Attacks.
Nobody thought they were going to hit.
They were I wouldn't say friendly
countries, they were like neutral. All
these countries are getting hit.
Uh there was no expert that would say
that was going to happen. If we did
know, big deal. I mean, we have to do
what we have to do. Up next, Eddie
Fishman of the Council on Foreign
Relations, live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Dan Skelly, Morgan Stanley saying it
just moments ago. We've had a buffet of
tacos. Why would this be any different?
Is this moment different? Equity futures
right now, the S&P declining by 0.2% on
the Nasdaq down by 0.3, on the Russell
negative 0.6, opening up a wide gap
between WTI and Brent overnight. Brent
crude getting close to 120 briefly, back
down to about 114, and up by more than 6
percentage points. WTI up by just 1.4%.
Natural gas prices having a major move
as well. In the bond market, that
unlocks high yields, particularly at the
front end of the yield curve. 380 now on
twos, up 10 yesterday, and up another
three. Yields the highest since last
summer. That's notable. We're pricing
out rate cuts for the remainder of 2026
and most of 2027 as people look to the
potential response function from a
Federal Reserve that's hamstrung. And I
think that's the key takeaway. This is
not a Fed that can counter this. They
can be dovish all they want, but the
inflation is staring them in the face at
a time where the economy is chugging
along and that Delta and American are
saying people are still spending. It is
a difficult situation for the Federal
Reserve.
>> This Federal Reserve constrained by
escalation in the Middle East. And as
Savannah said this morning, rain again,
energy attacks.
Nobody thought they were going to hit.
They were I wouldn't say friendly
countries. They were like neutral. They
were They lived with it for years. I
heard they were sending missiles to UAE.
I said, "That's strange." Qatar, they're
neighbors, they got along okay. All
these countries are getting hit.
There was no expert that would say that
was going to happen. If we did know, big
deal. I mean, we have to do what we have
to do. So, here's the latest this
morning. Energy prices soaring as
President Trump looks to curb attacks on
infrastructure in the Middle East
claiming the US knew nothing of the
Israeli strike on the critical South
Pars gas field in Iran. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall has the latest this
morning. Good morning, Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, the White
House is seeking de-escalation, though
it doesn't appear that Iran is heating
that call as the country threatens we
could see more attacks on Gulf energy
infrastructure soon. Iranian state media
reporting that a military spokesperson
says that the country's response to
Israel striking its largest natural gas
field is not over yet. That's a pretty
stark warning considering that President
Trump in a post on Truth Social
yesterday vowed that if Iran continues
to hit energy infrastructure of regional
partners, then the US will, quote,
massively blow up what's remaining of
the South Pars gas field. Still, the US
did try to distance itself from Israel's
initial strike there, though a person
familiar with the matter does tell
Bloomberg News that the US was aware of
the operation, but did not participate.
This White House is now signaling that
it is reluctant to hit oil
infrastructure that could disrupt global
flows even after earlier this week
President Trump reiterated a threat that
energy infrastructure on Kharg Island
could be a target if disruptions in the
Strait of Hormuz continue. And as you
know, those disruptions are continuing
only complicating the solutions being
put on the table to help try to bring
down gas prices for American consumers.
We saw just yesterday the White House
issue a 60-day waiver for the Jones Act
in a bid to bring down the cost to
transport energy goods between US ports.
John as Amarie was reporting, we are
expecting those oil executives here at
the White House later today. The
Interior Secretary Doug Burgum told us
on Bloomberg Television last week that
they have been in talk with talks with
domestic producers about uh building
output when it comes to the shale basin.
Some other uh potential solutions that
you may have heard of that we could see
discussed in the future includes asking
Congress for a federal gas tax holiday.
And also potentially waivers when it
comes to higher ethanol content
gasoline. Tommy Canter with the latest
from the White House. Tyler, thank you.
This is what Edward Fishman of the
Council on Foreign Relations has to say.
Writes the following, "Iran is waging
war on the global economy. Its strategy
is clear. Keep the Strait of Hormuz
effectively closed until prices rise
enough to force President Trump to back
down." The author of Choke Points,
American Power in the Age of Economic
Warfare, joins us now for more. Eddie,
good morning. Good to see you, John.
Let's sell some books. Let's talk about
the significance of this choke point.
Who's got control of this? Iran. I think
that's the one thing we've learned is
that Iran has established very clear
control over the Strait of Hormuz. And
there's very little that the United
States can do without committing ground
forces to stop that. Trump entered the
war assuming that Iran would not close
the Strait because the theory was that
they would have to put thousands of sea
mines in the Strait to close it. And if
they did that, what would happen? Iran
would not be able to sell its own oil,
so it would be economically suicidal.
Well, Iran has kind of created a new
kind of economic warfare with just using
cheap drones that cost, you know,
$10,000 a pop and only hitting about a
dozen ships, right? They haven't hit
that many ships. They've changed the
risk calculus of the entire entire
shipping industry. And so they've really
created this very low-cost way of
disrupting shipping and we don't have a
great answer for it.
>> I'm glad you brought up the cost cuz
these Shahed drones are 10 to 20,000
dollars to produce. How many does Iran
right now have in stockpile? Because how
cheap they are to produce means they
could potentially prolong this war for
as long as possible. I think that they
could prolong this war as long as they
want if if it's an if we're talking
about producing and using low-cost
drones. They've got tens of thousands of
them, but I think more to the point, the
room we're sitting in right now is
bigger than you would need to actually
produce Shahed drones. And Iran's a huge
country. I think it's the 15th or 16th
largest country in the world. So even in
a scenario in which we've got air
strikes for the next year and destroy
every every single thing in the country
that looks like a military target, we're
not going to be able to stop them from
producing drones. Members of Iran's
parliament right now are debating
potentially making it basically like we
have on our transit system. You have to
pay a fee in order to get through the
Strait of Hormuz. So basically is the
United States at some point ceding all
control of this international waterway
to the regime? Yeah, I mean, look, one
of the core factors underlying
underlying American hegemony for decades
has been that the United States provides
open sea lanes. What Iran has shown now
is that they actually control the the
Strait of Hormuz. And even if this war
were to end without regime change, so if
this war ends and Iran's decimated
militarily, but you still have the IRGC
in control, Iran still controls the
Strait of Hormuz. And to your point,
Anne Marie, I mean, it's quite
remarkable. Iran negotiating bilaterally
with, you know, not only Indians and the
Turks and the Chinese, but the French
and the Italians, you know, US allies
about creating kind of like a TSA
precheck line to get through the Strait
of Hormuz. I mean, talk about leverage.
It's quite remarkable and not honestly
anything I would have expected going
into this conflict.
>> it's hard to see an out unless US the US
makes real concessions or the US sends
boots on the ground. What would boots on
the ground look like? Sure. I think this
is a really important point because I do
really think there's a binary right
here. There's sort of two ways to reopen
the strait. One is you cut a deal with
the Iranians in which you're making
painful concessions, probably leaving
almost certainly leaving the regime in
power, but beyond that maybe drawing
down some US forces in the region, maybe
providing some security guarantees to
Iran in the form of Russian or Chinese
boots on the ground. A a kind of
tripwire in Iran the way that the United
States has in in you know, the NATO NATO
countries. I think if you were to put
boots on the ground, what would you need
to do? If the goal is reopening the
strait, you need two things. One, you
need naval patrols in the Strait of
Hormuz. The US Navy has not wanted to do
this because we could lose these
exquisite exquisite warships just by
short-range missiles or drones. But two,
we would also need to occupy quite a lot
of the coastal part of Iran in the
Persian Gulf to get enough of a buffer
zone so that it's out of range of the
drones. To the point we made before,
they're going to have drones, so we need
to actually build a very big buffer zone
to prevent them from using them against
ships. How much of a tipping point is
this in terms of the Middle East's
power, as a financial center, as a place
that's been attracting a lot of money, a
sort of a new growth area that everyone
wants to get into at least until now?
You know, I think this is one of the
more tragic elements of this war because
I think in the last few years Gulf
countries have made really substantial
strides to diversify away from just
being commodities producers. We've seen,
you know, the UAE, Saudi really invest
in the future economy becoming sort of
hubs for data infrastructure, AI, etc.
Well, guess what? We've now seen for the
first time in wartime a handful of data
AWS data centers struck by Iran. And the
real question I think that will come out
of this is even if there is some
stability, will investors feel confident
putting these really important AI data
centers in the Middle East? I'm not so
sure. And then from the perspective of
the Gulf countries, they're going to
have a big reconstruction bill. I mean,
all these investors who come on your
show, who are they going to for LPs?
It's the sovereign wealth funds of these
Gulf countries. They're not going to
have as much money, I think, to to
splurge on Western private equity funds
if they're needing to invest in
rebuilding the Ras Laffan
you know, natural gas facility in Qatar.
Eddie Fishman, question 40 seconds.
Ramuspeculation will be forgiving in the
future because this is a super fluid
situation. How do you think this ends?
Oof. Well, please do forgive me. I do
think that it's likelier that Trump
escalates than than that he caves. So,
I've I've always been skeptical that
Taco applies in this scenario. Taco in a
trade war, Trump can unilaterally
suspend tariffs and no one's all the
wiser. Everyone says, "Okay, well, you
know, we won." In this, if Trump backs
down militarily, he has to walk away
with his tail between his legs. And we
never know if Iran actually will even
allow ships to go through the Strait of
Hormuz. Eddie, good to see you. Good to
see you, too. Thanks for being here.
Thank you very much. Eddie Fishman
there, the Council on Foreign Relations
and author of Chokepoints: American
Power in the Age of Economic Warfare.
Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Samantha Goldman Sachs as attacks
on energy facilities send prices
absolutely soaring. Plus, Danny has your
morning movers. Micron's big spending
plans weighing on the stock. That name
is down by close to 7%.
Following back-to-back gains on the S&P
500, the threat of back-to-back losses.
Down yesterday, down again this morning.
We're negative by 0.3 on the S&P. On the
Nasdaq, down by 0.4. Underperformance
from the Russell small caps negative
point seven. In the commodity market
Brent and WTI Brent running close to 120
again overnight 114 up by 6% escalation
in the Middle East. WTI 97 far behind
and almost $20 gap opening up overnight.
That's notable and a conversation not on
the record but a conversation at least
about what the US would do and the
threat of export controls just maybe
part of the conversation this morning.
Remember back to 2022 when under
President Joe Biden there was there were
certain export controls of liquefied
natural gas at the same time that Europe
was looking for that. That was something
that was discussed because gas prices
here were rising significantly. Could
you see a repeat of that type of
behavior this time around?
>> been a great 24 hours for risk. You
couple that with a hawkish Fed news
conference with Chairman Powell. You've
got yields at the front end of the curve
the highest since last July. 382 on twos
up by four or five basis points this
morning and tens at the upper end of the
range for the year so far up two basis
points threatening to break 430 429 so
far this morning. As we count you down
to the open and bell a few hours away,
let's get you some single names some
morning movers. Danny Hasmore Hey Danny.
Hey John starting with the US listed
shares of Ferrari this morning dropping
nearly 3% after announcing that they
would be suspending deliveries to the
Middle East. They will still have a few
delivered via aircraft but it's a
significant pairing back. The CEO of
Ferrari saying they're not changing
their production schedule for cars for
the Middle East. They're just not
getting out there at the moment. For
what it's worth the Middle East only
accounting for about 5% of Ferrari
deliveries in 2025 so not a significant
stake but it is a region that there's a
lot of luxury spending so that's enough
to send shares lower. Elsewhere some
activist action Elliott according to
people familiar telling our very own
Michelle Davis and Leanna Baker that
they're taking a stake in the maker of
Invisalign. The shares Align that
they're up 3, 7.3%.
We don't know exactly what Elliot plans,
but they do want to take actions to
boost the share price. You have that
reaction. The stock down nearly 67% in
the past 5 years as the post-pandemic
boom to make your teeth better starts to
fade. And finally, Micron earnings a
blowout quarter beats all the forecasts,
and yet this is what you get, a drop of
6.9%
because of their capital expenditures.
25 billion is what they plan for this
fiscal year. They're going to increase
that by another 10 billion for 2027.
That's enough to spook investors and
send shares lower in the premarket,
John. Danny, thank you. What do we
always say? You can learn something from
the numbers, and maybe a little bit more
from how the market responds to them.
You learning something this morning?
Yeah, well, either two ways to look at
this. On one hand, you could say people
aren't rewarding spending because
they're a little bit concerned about
where the funding is going to come from.
You could also say that Micron has been
on a tear over the past 12 months, and
so ultimately people sort of
wondering about whether this really gets
the job done.
I'm a bit confused, to be fair, so I'm
curious to see what the details are
here.
>> That stock is down in the premarket. On
our radar this morning, President Donald
Trump pushing for de-escalation after a
series of attacks on energy
infrastructure in the Middle East. The
president warned that the US will quite
massively blow up the South Pars Field
in Tehran. Strikes Qatar again. The
White House weighing plans to require
ships to buy US government insurance
before being escorted through the Strait
of Hormuz. The Financial Times reporting
it remains uncertain if military escorts
will be made available.
And finally, the Vice President, J.D.
Vance, will be meeting with oil
executives a little bit later on today
with oil executives discussing the move
in crude. Brent close to 114 this
morning after getting very close to 120,
and gasoline prices getting close to
four bucks.
>> Yeah, exactly, $4. That is going to be a
huge psychological impact on this White
House, and in some states we are already
there, especially on the West Coast, and
the president's own state of Florida is
at 390 this morning. So, this is
significant. The Vice President of the
United States, an individual with lots
of reporting that this is an
isolationist, potentially not on board
with what is going on in the Middle
East, will be meeting with oil
executives today. So, they're going to
have this dialogue on what else is on
the menu this administration? What left
is in the tool box for them to pull? We
saw them do waivers on the Jones Act
yesterday. There is discussions with
this White House about potentially
banning exports of products. We are a
net energy exporter. And then there's
one that people push back and they're
like, "That's not really a case." But
ala 1970s, you can see this
administration potentially, if things
get really bad, ring-fencing the United
States. This is our energy. We are not
going to export it. And we're going to
cap prices.
>> Well, and this is when uh we saw, for
example, liquefied natural gas in the
awake of the 2022 war, what happened
with 2024 when that happened when the
government came out and they limited
some of the licenses for liquefied
natural gas going over to Europe. How
does this create complications with that
relationship? How does that create
complications for the LNG market in the
US that has pledged to provide extra to
uh substitute for uh where Russia left
off? And how does this really insulate
the United States when it's not just oil
and gas? It's also fertilizer. It's also
helium, which potentially could be a
problem for chip manufacturing. So, this
is a bigger issue and a question of what
these oil executives can possibly do to
stave off some of these rises.
>> Big squeeze in gas prices particularly
in Europe. Brent the big move overnight
of course, rising close to 120 as Iran
ramps up attacks on energy
infrastructure in the Middle East. We
caught up with Jeff Currie of Kpler
saying markets are underpricing the
supply shock.
I like to call it molecular contagion.
You know, last week we were talking
about shortages in Singapore. This week,
you know, it's in Rotterdam. This
thing's going intercontinental. There's
no more price spread. There's no more
spare bells. There's no policy fix and
it's just physics at this point. I think
I want to emphasize these are physical
supply chains. And that the idea of
around financialization and the ability
to print money doesn't apply here.
Samantha Dow of Goldman Sachs writes in
the following, "The developments
underscore upside risk to our price
forecast from longer Hormuz disruptions
and persistent damage to energy
production even after Hormuz reopens."
Sam joins us now for more. Sam, good
morning. Good to see you.
Let's start where we kicked off this
program this morning. Brent at 115, WTI
at 98, and a spread starting to open up
even more. What do you think it speaks
to?
So, I think the market is pricing in
this probability that maybe the US
government will restrict exports. And if
you're not exporting TI to the rest of
the world, then you have a bigger
oversupply within the US. So, WTI prices
would stay on the low end and sort of
disconnect from international prices.
>> Can we explore that a little bit
further? What would happen if they
actually introduce that policy?
So, if you're blocking exports, I think
the main risk, for example, especially
product exports that everybody's talking
about, the main risk is that the
refineries in the Gulf Coast will lose
those high margins they are seeing in
the market right now, and they may
choose, "Okay, I don't have the same
incentive to produce that I did just a
minute ago. I might reduce my
production." So, it's not obvious what
the net impact will be in terms of
product prices to the rest of the US.
Also, because we don't know if other
countries might retaliate. At the
moment, if you look at the northeast of
the US, it has to net import products.
Same thing with the West Coast that Ann
Marie mentioned earlier. So,
it it's not that easy to to balance
everything. On the even on the crude
side, yes, the US produces a lot of
light crude, but we import a lot of
heavy crude. A lot of our refineries are
set up to run a heavier type of crude.
So, what if other countries retaliate on
exporting that to the US? So, it's not
an obvious answer. Uh it can lower WTI
prices. It can potentially even lower
product prices for the the rest of the
country, but we don't know what other
ramifications might be. And when we saw
that in the past, we saw the oil
industry lobby against those types of
measures. So, I am curious to see where
those conversations end today. Are you
saying that you think the market's
wrong? That you think that this gap has
to close one way or another, potentially
with WTI coming up to meet Brent crude.
No, I think with these conversations
happening, the market is just trying to
price a probability that they go ahead
with it. And I think because of the
sharp spike in prices that we've seen so
far,
it it almost puts everything on the
table. And in the hopes that, okay, we
produce a lot of oil, we produce a lot
of products, maybe we can pull this off.
So, I think it's correct to price in a
probability this happens. I just don't
know if the outcome will be the desired
one. Are you surprised that the market,
the paper market, isn't reacting more
strongly to what a lot of people are
saying is a real shift that we saw
yesterday, where suddenly gas facilities
came under attack. Suddenly oil
facilities came under attack, both
suffering damages that could potentially
take them offline for a longer period of
time. Are you surprised that there isn't
an even bigger reaction, not only in
current futures, but also 3 months, 6
months, 12 months out? Yes, I am. Uh
what we've seen is that your Middle East
price rose up the most, and that makes
sense, that's where the shock is. And
when you look at Brent, not quite as
much. You still see a big differential,
and even in the Middle East, when you
look at their
um physical prices, they are even higher
than their financial prices. So, it's
almost like the market is saying, maybe
this can still be a short-lived event.
So, you price the most your physical
local market. Then second, you price
your local financial market, and third,
you price the financial markets
elsewhere.
When this is not a given today that is
going to be short-lived. In fact, the
escalation that we saw over the past few
hours would, I think, suggest an
increased risk that this goes on for a
little bit longer. So, yes, I am
surprised. I and I would expect the
longer this goes, the more those
financial prices will embed those those
risks in it and will go higher. I'm glad
you bring up this point. The essential
closure of Strait of Hormuz is
short-lived because that can reopen if
there's a detente.
Actually hitting energy infrastructure
and long-term damage is already
long-term. How long for this all to be
rebuilt and the supply chains to get
back to normal when actually the product
itself is getting hit?
That is a key point. I like to say that
there are two variables for us to to
watch in all this confusion. One is how
much volume is out of the market, and
that hasn't really changed because
you're hitting infrastructure that
wasn't really sending product or oil or
gas through the strait to begin with.
So, you're not changing today what's
coming out of the market. But the second
variable to watch is how long this
lasts, and
the Strait of Hormuz, to your point, is
just one part of that answer. The second
part is, well, if you're destroying
infrastructure, this may take longer to
fix. This might not be a 4-week run-up
of operations in that refinery that you
chose to shut down. This might take
longer. Might take a few months if you
have extensive damage in some of that
infrastructure. So, that second
variable, the risk of how long the
disruption lasts, you're essentially
making that risk higher. The more
infrastructure gets hit, the higher the
risk that disruptions last longer. As we
look ahead to J.D. Vance vice president
sitting down with oil executives, the
United States is not a monolith. If we
have an export ban control, what does
this do for the West Coast that are so
reliant on Asian imports for their
products?
>> Yeah, it and and it's difficult to move
So, you produce a lot of those products
in the Gulf Coast, and it's difficult to
move to the West Coast in particular
because you're not going to have enough
pipeline capacity to do it. So, you have
to ship it around, and it's not quite as
easy as shipping to the East Coast. So,
it will be a bit clunky.
Not
Not without friction, which means prices
can still stay higher for a little bit
longer. We've seen big moves in crude,
big moves in gas prices. Have you
started to see anything happen in acts
in self commodities off the back of
this? We're definitely getting a lot of
questions on it, and we also see direct
headlines saying
Pakistan, Bangladesh, India supply to
fertilizer plants in those locations
already being curtailed because they
don't have enough natural gas to do it.
So, we were talking to our chemicals
analyst in the US asking well, the US
still has supply. Do we have any spare
capacity to fill in that gap? But, the
answer is well, the US has cheaper
natural gas than everybody else to begin
with. So, we're already cranking this up
as as high as possible. So, you don't
have spare capacity to crank this up,
and planting season is coming. So,
everybody's going to need a lot of this
stuff coming soon.
>> When do you think we'll be confronted by
that reality?
Oh, I I don't think it takes long at all
because already supply is being
affected. The production of fertilizers
being affected, and planting season is
coming. Sam, it's good to see you. It
always is. Thank you. Samantha Datta of
Goldman Sachs breaking down the
commodity markets, something you've been
focused on, too. I'm looking right now
at corn futures, and they've been on a
tear, and I imagine it's a direct
response because this particular
fertilizer is for corn and wheat and
some of the other staples that people
need and rely on for their livelihoods.
Soybean farmers have been hit when it
comes to China not buying as much when
it comes to the trade war and the
tit-for-tat between Washington and
Beijing. And now they're getting hit
with higher fertilizer prices. This And
they already this administration was
talking about bailout for farmers. This
is going to get incredibly contentious
between the White House and the middle
of America.
>> We'll keep track of these moves for you.
Brent this morning 115 and higher by
more than 7%. Let's get you an update on
news elsewhere. Your news worldwide and
your Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more.
Hi Yohara.
>> Hi John. The FBI is investigating former
National Counterterrorism Center
Director Joe Kent who recently resigned
from his position in protest of the Iran
war. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Kent may have improperly
shared classified information. The
inquiry though has been underway for
months.
HSBC shares are trading lower in London
down more than 3% amid reports the bank
is considering deep job cuts due to AI.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
cuts could impact around 20,000 jobs or
about 10% of its total workforce.
Non-client facing roles in global
service centers are among those expected
to be the most impacted.
And Elon Musk saying his company SpaceX
and XA SpaceX and Tesla will continue
ordering Nvidia chips at scale. Musk
posting on social media he is a huge
admirer of Nvidia and its CEO Jensen
Huang and thinks the company's $4
trillion valuation is well deserved.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program, setting
up for a showdown.
I have no intention of leaving the board
until the investigation is well and
truly over with transparency and
finality. On the question of whether I
will then continue to serve as a
governor after my term ends and after
the investigation is over, I have not
made that decision yet. Up next we'll
catch up with the former Fed Governor
Betsy Duke from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> Central bankers confronting a shock in
the Middle East. Chairman Powell first
up, choosing to anchor inflation
expectations in the news conference
yesterday. Next up, the Bank of England
about 12 minutes away and after that,
the ECB. Into that, futures softer,
negative by 0.4% on the S&P and down by
0.6 on the Nasdaq. Into that, crude
higher. Brent
pushing closer to 120 overnight, 115
right now, up by 7% and now you start to
get a move in WTI. TI up by 2% to 98.22.
I'm looking at this move at the front
end of the yield curve, four basis
points higher through 380, the highest
yield we've seen on a two-year going
back to last summer. It's difficult for
any central bank to cut rates
significantly in this kind of backdrop,
given the fact that inflation was
already above target, was accelerating
in certain corners and then you add to
it oil shock that has no clear end and
that is the reason why Fed Chair J.
Powell just threw up his hands and said,
"We don't know." What we're going to
hear from the ECB and Bank of England
could be a little bit more definitive in
the wrong direction and frankly, this
bond market is repricing.
>> Not my circus and it sounded like he was
more concerned about inflation even
before this shock, which was slightly
curious. Yeah, I wonder who he was
channeling in terms of that because the
different Feds Fed members have
different views. Interesting also, 11 to
1 that Chris Waller got on board with
the majority to hold things where they
are and not signal another rate cut.
Again, what changed if it wasn't
necessarily some sort of strength in the
labor market?
>> Even with that very weak jobs report
just a week or so ago. Under Savannah's
this morning, setting up for a showdown.
If my successor is not confirmed by the
end of my term as chair, I would serve
as chair pro tem until he is confirmed.
I have no intention of leaving the board
until the investigation is well and
truly over with transparency and
finality. On the question of whether I
will then continue to serve as a
governor after my term ends and after
the investigation is over, I have not
made that decision yet. So, here's the
latest this morning. The Fed chair J.
Powell vowing to stand the central bank
until the DOJ completes its
investigation. The former Fed governor
Betsy Duke writes in the following,
"This could turn into a real standoff.
It's unclear whether it would disrupt
markets or be seen as a sign of Fed
independence and continuity." Betsy
joins us now for more. Betsy, welcome to
the program. Continuity or disruption?
Uh for me, it's continuity, but um this
is something that has never happened
before.
So, if you unpack what Jay said, the
first one is that he would serve as
chairman pro tem. That's the way it's
always been done while waiting for a
chairman to be confirmed. Although, it's
usually for a chairman to be confirmed
to a second term. So, it happened with
Greenspan, Bernanke, and and with
Powell. So,
that's the way it's happened, but I'm
not sure that's in statute. So, with
this president wanting to assert control
over the Federal Reserve, the Fed the
the president may
step in and name an acting chairman
of his own from the existing board, not
a a new appointee, but he may he may
want to do that, and I'm not sure what
the standing would be to for the Fed to
fight that.
But, the FOMC, the group that actually
sets interest rates, the FOMC actually
has the authority to elect its own
chairman. So, you could um
potentially see a situation where the
FOMC elects Powell as chairman, but the
president names someone else on the
board as chairman of that board or
acting chairman of that board. So,
Betsy, see, sounds like a mess. And
until now, there hasn't been much
disruption in financial markets.
Inflation expectations somewhat
elevated, but stable up until this
shock. Not disrupted by the Fed's
attacks they've been under from the
President of the United States. Do you
see that changing in months to come?
Well, you know, there have been a couple
of times when markets got nervous, when
there was an
uh some sort of a a move on the Fed. If
this breaks out into all-out
confrontation, though, it is going to be
concerning for markets. Now, whether
that disruption in markets then cools
cools the the
um
the situation down, remains to be seen.
Betsy, do you think that Fed Chair J.
Powell is putting a spotlight on this
conversation or turning the volume down
given his decision to or the fact that
he hasn't made a decision yet to step
down as governor after his chairmanship
is over?
So, I I think that part of the reason he
made the statements he did yesterday is
that some of that was in the court
filings. And so, in the public record,
but not um front and center in the in
the Fed
universe. And so, it looked to me like
he had that statement prepared. He read
it. He was waiting for the question.
Oddly enough, in this press conference,
it took longer for somebody to ask him
what he was going to do. But, he was
ready with that. And you know, he's
basically saying he is not going to
leave there as long as there is any
shred of this investigation left. He
left open, though,
whether or not he would actually
leave his seat and give the President
another seat to fill. And I think that
is going to just be determined by, you
know, what happens
next. And um
but I I want to be clear. I don't think
his fight is with Warsh. I think he and
Warsh, once Warsh is confirmed, he and
Warsh will work well together.
Um, Jay has worked under Chairman
Bernanke, Chairman Yellen, and he will
work fine with Chairman Walsh. I don't
think that's where the the tension is.
The tension is between
um, the Fed and the president. Betsy, is
this really a difficult moment for the
Fed just in terms of setting policy? I
mean, it seems pretty clear that if they
do nothing, there's really no risk on
either side. Is that they sort of out of
play anyway as this political fight
takes place?
I wouldn't say out of play. I would just
say
um, there are many, many events that
each and every one of them by themselves
would be a single supply shock or or or
demand shock that would work its way
through. But, there've been a series of
them, and so, you know, at some point
you look at it and you say, "Okay, we've
missed our target for 5 years
for very good reasons in each each case,
but it's been 5 years. And so, when do
expectations become unanchored?"
Betsy Duke, appreciate your time as
always. Betsy Duke there, the former Fed
governor. Right now, inflation
expectations haven't become unanchored.
Which is one reason why they're not
considering a rate hike. Right, if you
start to see those 5-year 5-year forward
break-even rates, some of the market
established views on exactly what
inflation could look like, not
necessarily the University of Michigan
sentiment survey,
>> Sure. then do you get a response that is
somewhat different in terms of gaming
out a rate move in either direction in
the remainder of this year.
>> We are all major advocates of central
bank independence, and we all agree that
the president's attacks on the
institution are misplaced and undermine
the ability of the Federal Reserve to
reduce interest rates over time, or
could.
The issue I have in the moment, I keep
going back to this, is that there is no
evidence right now in financial markets
that they've been rattled by those
attacks. There is no evidence in
financial markets that there has been an
erosion of central bank independence.
So, I I find it difficult to understand
why the chairman thinks
that he is the only defender of central
bank independence, and without him
somehow this all goes awry. If Congress
is that much of a believer in the
independence of the Federal Reserve,
shouldn't they have a handle on this?
And I think it's a fair I think it's a
fair point.
>> It's not your choice about who the
president nominates and who the Senate
confirms.
And once he terms out there, this is
highly unusual stuff. He terms out
there, someone else is confirmed, the
chairman leaves.
Sticking around because you don't like
what's going to come next
I find very political. We shall see. I
mean, honestly, it's going to be an
interesting couple next months. The
third hour up next.
Today, the FOMC decided to leave our
policy rate unchanged.
>> They decided to just basically
completely ignore the Middle Eastern
shock that we're facing here.
>> They're basically saying all of this
going on in the Middle East is a speed
bump.
>> I'm not really taking the step or the
dots um very seriously.
>> There's not a huge amount of forecast
accuracy here.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. Futures
declining by a third of 1% on the S&P,
down by 0.5 on the Nasdaq, -3/4 of 1% on
the Russell. The epicenter of disruption
once again in the commodity market,
pushing 120 overnight, very close on
Brent, back down to 113, higher by 6%.
Gas prices spiking, escalation in the
last 24 hours with energy assets
targeted across the Middle East, and
central bankers confronted with a major
shock. Chairman Powell first up,
anchoring inflation expectations. The
Bank of England follows, leaving
interest rates unchanged at a 9-0 vote,
and saying this, "All members stand
ready to act to contain inflation." And
forecasting inflation at over 3% for the
month of February, net 3.5%
for the month of March, and this is a
problem, not just for the UK, for the
ECB as well.
>> You know, it's notable that this was
actually an anonymous decision, because
usually there are dissents on the Bank
of England. When you hear what the
individual members have to say, it
highlights just how much this oil price
shock changed their view. Maybe not
necessarily with a rate hike, but in
terms of not cutting.
The Bank of England's Lombard Deli said
he's prepared to act over any persistent
inflation. Bank of America Bank of
England's uh Mann coming out and saying
she would have considered a lower
uh or even some sort of hike should this
continue. Uh really kind of coming out
with this idea that this is making them
more hawkish, but not ready to act just
yet. I'm curious to see to read into all
of these decisions to figure out exactly
how much they endorse the idea of a rate
hike ahead.
>> This is the issue for so many central
banks, particularly single mandate
central banks like the ECB, like others
that have to tackle the inflation rate.
They're squeezed by other issues as
well. For the US, you've got all these
tailwinds for US economic growth coming
into 2026, the rate cuts we've already
seen,
the fiscal stimulus coming through the
pipeline, the tax refunds, the amount of
tech capex we're going to see over the
next 12 months. Maybe the Fed's got a
cushion here to sit here and wait and
watch how this plays out. The problem
for the UK, the employment market's not
in a great place, neither's the economy.
Energy prices are going to squeeze the
consumer, and you've got a Bank of
England leaning into the prospect of
tighter monetary policy on top of that.
That's a tough place to be in. Which is
the same place that the European Central
Bank is in, although in Bank of
England's case, they have an even worse
situation given that they're a smaller
economy and are very susceptible to
these shocks. Right now, you are seeing
the pound gain a little bit versus the
dollar, and you are seeing about 50
basis points of rate hikes fully priced
into the market for the Bank of England.
As it does seem like the different
members would have been dovish, would
have come out with cuts had it not been
for what we saw. They now have one fewer
lever to pull to try to bolster this
economy when they have to fight
inflation and frankly, this is going to
be inflationary.
>> is really off as well.
You'll get this shock to inflation up
front all at once, then the growth hits
further down the road. And for the
Federal Reserve, this is what Joseph Gan
of MUFG was talking about. The issue is
that all shocks are initially
inflationary before coming becoming
contractionary. Going on to say, we
anticipate the Fed will fall into the
same trap as they did in 25 by pushing
back remaining cuts into the second
half. That's the problem with the
sequencing. Right now, what you look at
when you check out Fed funds futures is
the first rate cut is in October 2027.
And then after that, a bunch more rate
cuts are following, which indicates that
the Fed is going to remain on hold until
there is a weaker financial condition.
Is that going to be the same for the
Bank of England and the ECB? And as a
trader, what do you do with this given
that it is circumstances is well beyond
any of their control.
>> in the next hour, let's break down the
last 24 hours. So around this time
yesterday, a strike on an Iranian gas
field, a report from Axios confirming it
came from Israel with cooperation and
approval of the United States of
America. Iran vowed to retaliate, we've
seen that big time overnight. And then
the president steps in
and denies having any knowledge of it
ever happening
ahead of time
and warning the Iranians that if they
continue to strike assets particularly
in Qatar, he'll retaliate even harder
next time. That's how messy things have
become in just 24 hours.
>> Right. So the president is trying to
distance himself from this report and
even our own reporting that the United
States knew Israel was going to attack
South Pars, which is the biggest,
largest natural gas field in the world.
It's incredibly important for Iran in
terms of terms of their domestic needs
as well. Now Iran is targeting in the
last 24 hours, you have seen a number of
installations across the Middle East get
hit. We're talking about Qatar, and the
president was saying that in his Truth
Social post about Qatar's LNG gas
facility. This morning,
uh on Eastern time, it was in Saudi
Arabia that it was hit. So, this is the
escalation of the news phase. Energy
infrastructure is a massive target for
the regime. And as their missiles start
to wind down, they don't have as many
more, they are going to go for even
bigger targets.
>> Equity futures down by 0.5% on the S&P
500. Coming up this hour, Gaggi Chaudhry
of BlackRock as stocks wipe out weekly
gains. Max Layton of Citi expecting oil
prices to go even higher. Steve Wozniak
of Mizuho reacting to the latest jobs
data. Here's a view on Wall Street this
morning as investors weigh the Fed and
Middle East conflict. Gaggi Chaudhry of
BlackRock writing, "We're in the latter
shock now, where pullbacks will likely
provide opportunities in weeks and not
in months." Gaggi joins us now for more.
Gaggi, why is a pullback at this point
an opportunity?
Good morning. It's good to be here. So,
definitely a lot of uncertainty like
Chair Powell laid out.
But like we've seen, you know, a few
times before,
perhaps this is a different conflict
than past geopolitical shocks. But at
the end of the day, whether it's in, you
know, few weeks or a month, it does
always provide an opportunity to get
back into the market, especially when,
and I think this is the more important
part that I get to in my note to you, is
when the fundamentals remain solid. And
I think that's the point here. Of
course, this is a big shock. I think
investors, rightly so, are sort of
thinking about ways in which they can
raise liquidity in their portfolios. But
at the end of the day, in the US, the
fundamentals are still solid and
supportive. Earnings growth is still
extremely positive, and real GDP, as we
saw from the chair yesterday, is
expected to accelerate. You were precise
with your words in the US. This shock
will hit different markets in different
ways. Where does it leave other markets
outside of the US?
Absolutely, and I did say that about the
US because we are in a relatively better
spot, obviously, given the energy export
being a net energy exporter. I think
coming into the year, we were feeling
quite positively on the emerging market
complex. You know, I've been on your
show before and talked about our
fondness for emerging market equity
these and certain parts of emerging
market debt as well. I think now we have
to be a little bit more precise within
that. Obviously, countries that are net
energy importers, and you know, I'm from
one of them. I'm from India, and we're
already at home beginning to see the
impact of LNG prices and how that's
impacting the consumer. So, I do think
there's going to be a huge amount of
differentiation. Obviously, countries
within the EM, and I'm looking at LatAm
specifically, which are energy
exporters, I think will do a lot better,
especially because their exports will
not be as, you know, impacted by the
crisis in the Middle East.
I think we have to be a little bit more
careful, certainly in Europe and
emerging markets,
but the US, at least for now, I do
believe there's going to be continued
pullback, but I think that it's going to
be viewed as an opportunity to reenter,
especially the areas of the market where
the earnings growth has been very solid.
And I'll also say that especially in the
US, this is giving an investors
a chance also to diversify. I think
that's one thing that clients have been
asking us what to do.
Where should we go for diversification
because nothing has worked. So, this is
where we sort of are telling investors,
"Listen, think about building a really
diversified portfolios which does have
bonds within them as well as US equities
and parts of commodity markets." Gargi,
I love this. That's exactly where I was
going to go. Diversification earlier
this year was move into Europe and move
into Asia. Now, have we flipped the
script and it's go into the US, but go
into stocks and go into bonds and go
into commodities?
Look, I I think it depends a little bit
on what your horizon of investment is,
right? So, at the end of the day, do we
think this is going to impact emerging
market stocks and European stocks for
the next 12 to 24 months? Probably not.
So, those investors that are looking to
build a portfolio for a very long period
of time, you're absolutely supposed to
have some of those international
markets, especially given some of the
valuations that we're getting to. And
also because emerging markets again is
another great way to get that
AI value chain that we've talked about.
But for those that are looking for the
next, I would say month two months,
maybe even six months, I think more and
more it the signs are becoming quite
evident that US is where the continued
earnings growth is and US bond markets
are where, especially given some of the
backup in rates, is where you're
supposed to source your income. And
frankly, investors are doing that. 75%
of the inflows
in the US in the first sort of 15 days
of March have been into fixed income
products, not equities. What a month of
March has been already for crude,
massive moves. Kathy, I'm just going to
cut in with this breaking news. A big
move in crude, a big move in gasoline
prices.
And this president and this
administration is starting to sound a
little bit more rational. This from the
Treasury Sec of Treasury speaking to the
American press just moments ago. The US
could do a unilateral release of all
reserves and going on in addition to
that saying this, the US may unsanction
Iranian crude that's already on water.
That's quite a line coming from the
Treasury Secretary moments ago. It feels
like they understand this moment is just
intolerable when it comes to what is
going on in the energy landscape, so
they're willing to unwind some of their
key foreign policy initiatives. And that
would be a gift to the regime in a sense
that we are going to unwind the
sanctions we have on this regime because
we want your crude because we are so
desperate. Two key headlines also saying
that look, we're also willing to go
unilaterally and tap the SPR again. What
other tools in the toolbox are they
discussing? Well, I'm sure it's going to
be key this morning when executives meet
with the vice president. One thing that
they're not doing, and this is what the
Treasury Secretary said, we're not
intervening in oil futures. We are not
going to do financial market oil
intervention. So, trying to quash some
of that speculation that continues to
circulate even after they tried to quash
that before.
>> Secretary Doug Burgum told Joe Matthew
and Tyler Kendall last week it is under
discussion. He said it'll take a
tremendous amount of capital. I'm not
going to say more of it. To my
knowledge, it hasn't happened yet, but
it is under discussion. Okay, maybe it's
not happening right now, but they've
definitely discussed it.
>> want to get a real move? Check out the
UK's right now. That's the UK government
bond market too, yeah, front end of the
curve. 27 basis point move.
Call it 28 at the front end of the UK
curve. That's a major move, a massive
move. We've got a big move stateside as
well. We're at the highest level since
last summer, but I'm talking mid-single
digits on the session after being up 10
yesterday. You've got a central bank
that needs to take tighter for longer
even though the central bank is looking
at an economy that's not doing well
right now because of one thing, the
shock that's coming from the Middle
East. And this is the second one we've
seen.
You've had the Federal Reserve leaning
to anchoring inflation expectations, the
Bank of England doing the same, and in 1
hour from now, you might get the ECB
doing exactly the same thing as well.
Just to give you a sense of perspective
around this Bank of England decision,
this was the first time of the Bank of
England that all nine members had a
unanimous decision in 4 and 1/2 years.
They have not agreed on anything. And
what a lot of even the more dovish
members said was they would have voted
for a cut had it not been for what is
going on in the Middle East. Even those
that are more hawkish are now even more
so and talking about the potential for
hikes. The markets clearly reacting, 50
basis points of rate hikes getting
priced in. This is a very difficult
situation for all European Central
Bankers.
>> Katia, I'm working through this in real
time. I keep going back to this. We've
repriced energy, big move. We've
repriced rates, we've taken easing out
and priced in hikes in places like the
Bank of England and over the ECB in the
Eurozone. Do you think we've repriced
growth sufficiently off the back of
those two things?
You know, I think there's so many
drivers of growth in the US. I I think
that yesterday what we heard from Chair
Powell, it was actually quite surprising
to me to see how much they revised up
their forecast for growth, but I think
the message that the market heard was
that productivity greater than oil,
right? That that was what they were
saying, that the impact of productivity
is what's driving growth. I do want to
point out that especially since you're
talking about BOE and ECB,
us having a central bank that has a dual
mandate does make us different, right?
Uh I don't know that we're going to be
at a point where we're going to hike
interest rates as a result of this,
because what we're not talking about is
the demand shock. The demand shock that,
you know,
may may come if prices continue to be
here. And in that case, we're far away
from hiking given that's a dual uh
mandate central bank, we're more likely
to focus on the growth shock and
therefore on easing policy rates. So,
even though markets are repricing the
front end pretty aggressively, I wonder
if, you know, we're forgetting that this
is a central bank that's more likely to
ease if growth comes in growth shock
comes into the picture. Having said
that, I think productivity, which has
been immense, is what's driving some of
the growth forecast from the Fed much
more so than oil. Katia, good to see
you. As always, Katy Kamrany there of
BlackRock breaking down these moves.
We've had a 40% plus move in crude for
the month of March so far. That's WTI.
Brent an even bigger move. Plus this
morning. And you've got a major move in
gas prices in Europe as well. And this
is what rates traders are doing with it.
We're now pricing over at the Bank of
England a 50% chance of three hikes this
year. 2026, only a month or so ago we
were talking about the prospect of rate
cuts over at the Bank of England. That
story has flipped and turned around
aggressively. And it's because it's a
single mandate made a mandate central
bank just like the Bank of England.
You've seen in the past when there has
been a more hawkish projection from some
of these central banks, the currency
loses value. That's not the case today,
but I am watching that closely because
ultimately this will crimp growth
potential forward going forward and that
I clearly see as a concern.
>> It's a big move here in the last hour or
so. Let's get you an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey Yahara. Hi John.
President Donald Trump pushing for a
de-escalation of attacks on Middle East
energy assets. The announcements coming
after Iranian and Israeli strikes on
major gas fields. The president saying
any additional attacks by Iran on
Qatar's LNG facilities would prompt the
US to quote "massively blow up the
entirety of the South Pars gas field."
Eli Lilly's experimental weight loss
shot seeing major success in its latest
trial. The GLP-1 helped diabetic
patients lose over 15% of their body
weight, more than any other drug
currently on the market. Lilly sees it
as an option for people with more severe
obesity who may need a stronger
treatment than the company's Zepbound
shot or Novo Nordisk's Wegovy.
And we are seeing Rivian shares soaring
in the pre-market up more than 10%. Uber
announcing a major investment into the
EV maker as it ramps up its push into
robo-taxis. Uber will purchase 10,000
Rivian models to be used as robo-taxis
part of a 1 and a quarter billion dollar
overall investment. Rivian robo-taxi
rides will be offered in San Francisco
and Miami by 2028 with plans to reach 25
cities globally by 2031.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohana, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Um, next on the program, we'll
get the reaction from Max Layton of City
looking for some big moves in energy. We
had them already overnight. His thoughts
in just a moment and the latest
headlines coming out of central bankers
worldwide. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Let's break it down. Equity futures next
session, those were down by 0.5% on the
S&P, negative by 0.9 on the Russell. In
the commodity market, Brent overnight
close to 120 this morning. WTI right
here right now, 114 up by 6% in the bond
market. Let's just focus on the very
front end of the yield curve stateside
and then we'll move things worldwide.
The two-year in the US pushing 390, up
10 basis points yesterday, up close to
10 this morning, 387.
The chairman of the Federal Reserve
anchoring inflation expectations in the
news conference yesterday. Pricing out
easing over at the Fed has been the
story of the past two or three weeks. In
the UK, look at this right now.
The Bank of England keeping interest
rates unchanged and doing almost exactly
the same thing the chairman Powell did
in the news conference yesterday looking
to anchor inflation expectations. A 30
basis point move plus
on the front end of the UK yield curve
right now. This is tighter financial
conditions coming out of central banks
and this isn't the final act of today.
You've got the ECB in less than one
hour's time. To me, me fact that this
was the first unanimous decision on the
Bank of England going back 4 and 1/2
years highlights the parallelization
that people have the paralysis that
people have. Bank of England's Catherine
Mann saying she is now considering a
longer hold or even a hike ahead after
otherwise potentially voting for a cut.
It just shows how much the tide shifted.
>> you've got these headlines coming out of
the Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent
speaking just moments ago. Keep up with
this. Bear with us. One.
We're not going to do anything in
financial markets to intervene with oil.
Okay, speculation as to whether they are
or not. We can let that go. The US could
do a unilateral release of oil reserves
to support the supply of crude.
The US may unsanction Iranian oil
that's on water. That's controversial
given the sanctions on Russia
and Iran.
And then this.
We'll see if Kharg
key island, key energy asset of Iran,
all the exports come out of that island.
We'll see if Kharg is eventually
a US asset. That headline coming from
the Treasury Secretary to the to the
American press just moments ago.
>> My mind is speeding because it's
Secretary Bessent that's delivering that
message and not the DOD head, Pete
Hegseth, who's also speaking right now
with Chairman Cain at the Pentagon. Now,
there is this amphibious assault ship
from the US Navy, USS Tripoli. It went
past uh the Chinese Strait, the South
China Sea, excuse me, and it was spotted
near Singapore. It is going to Iran. And
there's been tons of speculation. What
is the president going to do with these
2,200 Marines? Potentially, could he go
on and take over the energy
infrastructure on Kharg Island? Well,
the Treasury Secretary just opened that
door. Let's stick with our top story,
crude, with a big move surging past 116
earlier on this morning pushing 120 with
major energy assets across the Middle
East taking hits. Max Layton of Citi
writing, "Our refreshed base case is
that oil flows are disrupted for the
next 4 to 6 weeks. We estimate that
Brent prices will rally as the conflict
continues over the coming days to 110 to
120 a barrel. Max is jumping on the
phone for us to break down some of these
headlines. Max, welcome to the program.
Very close to those levels already.
What's your reaction to what we're
hearing so far this morning?
Yeah, great to be on the show. Um so,
when we published it, uh to be fair, it
was $102. So, it's moving quickly, and I
think the point of the report is that we
need to see higher prices um
that bring us to either a diplomatic or
a military uh solution to this issue.
This The The loss of the flows through
the Hormuz Strait is just so big that it
it it can't go on, and that's why the
base case is it lasts for 4 to 6 weeks.
It's not because there's an obvious
solution
or an obvious ending. It's because when
we look at the fact that at the start of
the year, we were spending as a global
populace around 2 and 1/2 trillion
dollars on crude oil and products, and
today, annualized, we're spending more
like 4 and 1/2 trillion dollars. So,
this 2 trillion-dollar delta is that
that that shift is almost as big as the
first oil shock in the early 1970s.
If this continues to the end of June,
you know, this kind of disruption that
we're seeing, and this includes some,
you know, conservative assumptions about
East-West pipelines and other
diversions, so we're not even assuming,
you know, the worst case, which is that
the Bab el Mandeb Strait is affected. If
this continues through the end of June,
our analysis points to the prices
getting back to the second oil shock
peaks, not the first oil shock, the
second oil shock, and that will take the
spend on crude oil and products globally
up towards the
you know, you're talking 8 trillion, 8%
of GDP.
So, it just can't It needs to find a
solution, and the market um is trying to
do that.
>> So, Max, when we spoke to Jeff Currie of
Carlyle, and it's great to do this with
you in real time as we get these
breaking headlines. He was talking about
the inverse of what we saw in the
pandemic, that we had a massive shock to
demand. Demand crashed, and what you
needed to rebalance the market was for
prices to drop aggressively lower.
Now we look at the mirror image of that
situation, and you need much higher
prices to rebalance the oil market. Max,
can you talk us through the economics of
this? People band around the term demand
destruction. Just what is the price
elasticity of demand for energy? How
simple is it?
Well, in some of the markets, we're
already moving to kill demand, and you
can see it in jet fuel in some regions,
in diesel. You're already trading well
over $200 a barrel in those markets, and
that's partly because the inventories
there are more expensive to hold, so we
just don't hold as high a level of them.
So some countries are kind of running
out of jet fuel already. So the demand
destruction happens physically. Uh the
other way it happens is um you know,
just with higher prices, so people
change their behavior.
And I mean, we're already we're already
seeing this certainly in the jet fuel
market. That's most obvious, but um
I would like to make a comparison to the
COVID period cuz you know, one of the
big questions is a different one to to
Jeff's, and you know, uh I used to work
with Jeff at Goldman, so you know, we go
back, and I I I'd make the a lot of
people ask me, you know, why are risk
assets holding up relatively well
considering that this shock to oil
supply is bigger than what happened in
the first and second oil shocks.
And you know,
one comparison I'd like to make is
I still remember in late uh it was late
January 2020 when COVID was kind of
spreading in China, and it had just
reached Milan, and you know, equity
markets didn't sell off for a whole
month. There was a whole month where,
you know, even the Prime Minister was
still going into Parliament here in the
UK. And uh you know, people want to
believe that it's going to get better.
And you know, I think there
there is still, certainly in our base
case, the hope that that happens, but uh
every day that passes is a day where you
get closer to people kind of, you know,
the realization day that this is a
really big shock. I think you said that
when you say your base case is a hope
right now, Max. I don't want to really
glean into the future too much, but the
Treasury Secretary opened that door. I'm
still struck by this headline. We'll see
if Kharg is eventually uh becoming a US
asset. What would that mean to energy
prices if the United States takes over
Kharg Island?
Sure. So, one of the big fears and part
of we put a bull case of 30% probability
on the bull case. The base case we have
a 50% but the 30% is that uh either the
Hormuz Strait is disrupted for the next
2 to 3 months or
and/or you get um energy infrastructure
attacks in the region that that disrupt
um energy production, oil production
specifically, for you know, a period
equal to or longer to what we saw during
the second oil shock, which was around 6
months. Um and that's entirely possible,
you know, a barrage of missiles from
Iran's uh targeting one asset will be
hard to stop. And it takes you, you
know, we don't know how long, it depends
on the damage, but it could be 3 months,
6 months, 12 months, however long it
takes you to rebuild that production
capacity. So, you know, the Hormuz
Strait, if it opens, can come, you know,
the the oil supply can come back really
quickly, but obviously, if you hit
energy infrastructure, and that may be
the response
uh of Iran to affecting its energy
supplies, then obviously, it takes a
long time to rebuild that.
Max, I just want to break down some of
the other headlines as well. Bramo, that
one is controversial without a doubt on
Kharg Island, and there are some
speculation as to what's going to happen
down in the next number of weeks.
But, we've already had waivers for
Russian crude.
And we've talked about how this effort
is undermining foreign policy objectives
elsewhere, particularly for the
Europeans given the war taking place
right now between Russia and Ukraine.
The fact that the US may unsanction
Iranian crude that's on water right now
is also really difficult to get your
head around. Think about the two
conflicts at the moment.
You've got the Ukraine at war with
Russia and the Europeans are still
buying Russian energy.
And you've got a war between the US and
Iran, and the US is talking about
unsanctioning Iranian crude for them to
sell to the rest of the world at a high
price.
Try and get your head around some of the
things happening right now in the
commodity market. It really highlights
the dissonance between the public
response to higher oil prices, the lack
of preparation to have alternative
sources of fuel in a whole host of
different regions, and frankly, I don't
want to say panic, but a little bit of a
more urgent feel coming from different
administrations saying, "We have to do
something even if it runs counter to our
goals." It just raises the specter of
what else do they have in their in their
arsenal given the fact that yeah, you
can do unilateral SPR releases. Sure,
you can unsanction oil. That isn't going
to unclog the Strait of Hormuz, and it's
not going to solve the ultimate problem.
>> If they decide to unsanction Iranian
oil, this would be a reversal of their
own maximum pressure campaign that Trump
has spoken about in Trump 1 and he went
ahead and put the policy
on the table as well as in Trump 2, and
the regime would be getting
oil profit, petrodollars at a much
higher price right now. Where you look
at where Oman and Dubai crude is. I'm
not talking about Brent oil a dollar
$110. We're talking about $150, $160,
$170 a barrel. So, basically paying the
regime while the same time the Israelis
are decimating them. It's a little
confusing.
>> Hi Max, it's always good to get you on
the phone and catch up with you in real
time off the back of this breaking news.
Thanks for making time for us. Max
Layton there of Citi breaking down his
views on this oil market. I've got some
good news, some better news, and this is
the difference between the United States
and the UK right now.
In the UK squeezed by energy at the same
time as the labor market is weak and the
central bank is on pause worried about
anchoring inflation expectations and
two-year yields are absolutely surging.
In the US, the good news, the labor
market jobless claims at 205 initial
jobless claims promo. That is good news.
>> Yeah, and this is really highlights the
data we've been getting significantly
from the United States which is the
economy is still okay and people are
still able to spend. I am really
interested to see how much the US market
is moving in response to the UK and how
much the ECB expectation is moving in
tandem with what we saw from the Bank of
England. What you're seeing right now,
no rate cuts until October 2027 in the
United States and then once they start
cutting rates they're going to cut rates
quickly and that gives you a sense of
just how much growth could get
curtailed. So yes, things look fine now
but the longer that the Fed remains on
hold and the longer that oil prices
really cannibalize from people's
spending power, there is going to be a
hit on the other side. At least that is
the implication for markets.
>> Markets already pushing this. Two-year
stateside, we were talking about it
earlier. Two-year at 390 is trading
above the upper end of the range on Fed
funds right now and over the Federal
Reserve there's a tremendously high bar
to hike interest rates. So think about
what we're really pushing in the market
right now. Up by 15 on twos and check
out the UK curve. Keep going back to it.
30 basis point move. This is EM type
stuff. It really is. 30 basis point move
plus on the UK curve right now at the
very front end following this decision
from the central bank to keep rates
unchanged and anchor inflation
expectations with inflation set to come
in much hotter than expected for the
next few months.
>> Yeah, their their message was pretty
clear which is ultimately they're either
going to hold or hike rates. The fact
that right now we're pricing in three
rate hikes for the European Central Bank
at a time when we still see growth
potentially falling off as a result of
this oil shock gives you a sense of just
what a quagmire they're in. The fact
that the US market is following in
tandem also shows the global nature of
this bond market. Does the Fed still
have control over the story?
>> Emma, and we've done this so many times
over the past few weeks, we've repriced
energy pretty aggressively. We've
repriced rates pretty aggressively. Have
we repriced growth sufficiently? And I'm
not just talking about the US. I'm
thinking more about Europe, Asia. Have
we really priced down the hit to growth
that we could see off the back of these
moves?
>> The answer is definitively not at all.
And most people do not have recession
anywhere in their base case. When you
start to look at this type of shock, and
it hearkens back to the 1970s or even
the pandemic type of era, those were
typically recessionary. And you start to
wonder what is the arsenal that people
have to really counter that. No one
wants to go there because they want to
believe that this is temporary, and we
all want to believe that. And until
there is a really a sense of exactly how
long this could go on, that's when
you're going to start to see a breaking.
>> is being squeezed right now. We heard
from the Treasury Secretary moments ago.
Want to break down those headlines with
Tyler Kendall. She's got more. Hey,
Tyler.
Yeah, hey John. Well, some new ideas
being floated by the Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent in this interview as this
White House plays defense when it comes
to their plans to help combat rising oil
prices after the escalation in attacks
on energy infrastructure that we saw
overnight. Now, as you've already
outlined, the US Treasury Secretary
saying that the US could quote
unsanction Iranian oil that is already
floating at sea. We have to keep in mind
the administration has defended a
similar moves when it comes to Russian
barrels floating at sea, often saying
that that would only be a temporary
move. The Treasury Secretary also saying
that we could see another tapping of the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve after this
172 million barrel release that's set to
take place over the next 4 months. Just
for context here, the SPR currently sits
at about 60% capacity amid concerns
about refilling it back up. Now, of
course, the priority for the White House
in this conflict is getting the Strait
of Hormuz reopened. And you mentioned
that headline from Scott Bessent there
seeming to indicate that Kharg Island
could still be a legitimate target after
President Trump tried to scale back and
de-escalate. As we've seen these targets
on energy infrastructure, I want to
point out that right now there is a
Pentagon briefing that is ongoing and we
heard from the Joint Chiefs of Staff Dan
Keen who made it a point to reiterate
that the US only hit military targets on
Kharg Island last Friday.
Bessent also here appearing to perhaps
pressure the Japanese Prime Minister
ahead of her visit to the White House
here today touting how Japan has a lot
of these mine sweeping capabilities that
could ultimately help to secure the
Strait of Hormuz. He also did defend the
US's decision to delay that planned
summit between President Trump and
Chinese President Xi Jinping saying that
it is only due to logistics and not
because of China's refusal to help
secure the Strait. John, I did catch up
with the US Trade Representative Jamison
Greer yesterday who reiterated that to
me but also said that US negotiators
made it clear to Beijing that it is in
their best interest if they help to
secure the Strait of Hormuz. Tana Canady
with the latest out side of the White
House. Tana, thank you. Appreciate it.
Crude close to triple digits on TI.
Brent crude 113. Major moves over the
past few weeks. Gasoline prices pushing
$4 a gallon now. That will get your
attention in the White House and the
White House and the Treasury just on the
margin. Stocks just sound a little bit
more rattled so far this morning.
>> Absolutely. Three huge headlines are
going to potentially hit the SPR one
more time. They're going to unsanction
potentially Iranian crude. Remember,
Trump's big thing with Iran has been
maximum pressure, not a single barrel.
All the flows right now go to China. So,
they're basically saying that maybe some
of these flows can go to say Europe
which historically at some point you
have European refiners that took in some
of this heavy crude from Iran. This
would be counterintuitive to their
entire maximum pressure campaign. The
regime would be making more money
because right now how expensive crude
is. And then this third headline that
I'm still struggling to understand
because we have the chairman of Joint
Chiefs of Staff Cain speaking. And the
head of the Pentagon, the Defense
Secretary Pete Hegseth speaking. And
this headline did not come from them in
terms of potentially the US controlling
Kharg Island. It came from the Treasury
Secretary at the
>> It's a novel one, isn't it?
>> At the same time everyone in the
national security space has been
tracking the USS Tripoli. Came from
China. It was the other day seen past
Singapore. These marines, what are they
going to be used for? Everyone's been
talking about potentially they could be
used for this. And the Treasury
Secretary basically just said it out
loud.
>> The energy shock is turning into a rate
shock. We could talk about the move in
the UK. The two-year up by more than 30
basis points so far. The US move I find
slightly more curious and I think
there'll be some pushback particularly
from people in fixed income this morning
because that rate on a two-year now is
trading above Fed funds at the upper
range of Fed funds and the bar for hikes
is so high at the Fed Reserve. You'll
get a few people in fixed income raising
questions about just how far that should
be going.
>> Yeah, raising questions by buying the
two-year because they'll think that
people are misreading exactly what's
going on globally. This is a Fed that
told you yesterday that a rate hike was
not anywhere in a base case or even a
possible case for 2026.
>> Jobless claims crossed just moments ago.
Mike McKee is with us for more. Mike,
we've got some good news at least on the
labor market front. Some good news on
the labor market front. Just 205,000
job jobless claims last week as you
pointed out. So the low hire low fire
economy continues and J. Powell
suggested that the labor market might be
in better shape than we think at this
point because the unemployment rate's
not moving a lot. We did see the
Philadelphia Fed index come out much
stronger than expected at 18.1 up from
16.3. The expectation was it was going
to be cut in half to just 8.0. However,
prices paid rise to 44.7 from 38.9. This
may be a sign that the uh first price
effects of the war are starting to bleed
into the US economy. Uh generally new
orders fell. It was shipments that
pushed up the Philly Fed numbers. So,
again, that's a rearview mirror number,
but the prices paid and prices received
numbers may be giving us a little
glimpse into what the future is going to
hold.
>> Mike McKee breaking down the numbers.
This is boring stuff and boring's good
news. Right now, the labor market's
doing okay, at least when you look at
jobless claims.
>> Yeah, at least it doesn't it create a
stagflationary type of environment. For
that reason, that's why people are going
into US equities and to some degree US
bonds because the quagmire is less
severe than say what you're seeing over
in England and at the ECB.
>> Steven Sciutto of Mizuho joins us around
the table. Steve, good morning. Good to
see you. Big moves embraced this
morning. Yields at the front end of the
curve, central banks anchoring inflation
expectations. What do you make of what
you've seen so far? Well, I think that
the conversation you two were having
before about the eventuality of people
coming in and buying yield is real.
Um we've seen this, you know,
development take place over and over
again
um since we had the whole blowup that
took place in 2019
uh in the marketplace and people are
conditioned to do that. Um you know, as
people focus in on the oil situation,
however, that tends to mute a little bit
of it, but I think when you look at real
risk assets, you look at corporate
bonds, you look at the way spreads have
come in, you look at the way deals have
come into the marketplace and we've kind
of had a little bit of low in deals
yesterday and probably a little bit low
today cuz of the volatility uh that's
taking place. There's still a lot of
liquidity. There's a lot of people
grabbing duration, and that's the thing
we've noticed about the uh about the
corporate bond space is the the longer
duration assets have done liabilities
that have been sold have done better
than the front end um assets because
people are grabbing yield. They're
looking at this environment said, "We've
seen this before. We're going to buy
yield again. Every time we've done it,
it's been a knee-jerk response. We've
done well on it." And I think that that
story has not changed yet. I think the
market has to realize once that that
breaks before we'll get up to the 460
level. This may be the the environment
in which it happens, but I think you
have to break equities through 6,500 to
have that happen. Well, I guess that
this is really the key question and
we've been talking about it a lot around
this table this idea that if you have
benchmark rates that are higher, if you
have a Fed that's not going to cut
rates, I know you never thought that the
Fed was going to cut rates, but now
they're doing it for perhaps the wrong
reason, and you have a concern about how
long this could go,
do you think that people are
sufficiently pricing in the hit to
growth that could potentially come on
the heels of this? Well, the hit to
global growth, which I think you were
talking about earlier, Jonathan, is is a
real real issue, and that just creates
more of the excess supply situation. But
by the same time, it also lowers the
demand for energy. So, that that has an
offsetting effect in terms of the price
of energy. So, you have to consider the
way these things roll through the
system. Uh it'll also have an effect in
terms of the longer-term interest rate
environment, it'll have effect on, you
know, what monetary policy needs to do
around the world. So, yeah, there are
short-term impacts, but there are also
longer-term impacts that these central
bankers have to consider. And I think,
you know, neither none of these things
are just simple one-off transactions.
There's multiple layers. You have to
peel back the onion to really get to the
core to see what's going on. And I think
when you do that, you'll come to a
situation that says, yeah, demand gets
destroyed, well, then energy prices come
down because there's less demand for
energy. If energy prices come down, then
the inflation fears concern. If energy
prices come the products come down, then
the distribution of income changes, then
people go back to spending and you kind
of moderate things out for a while.
>> Let's make it more simple. You've been
bullish for a while. You've seen the
potential to surprise to the upside in
terms of growth and inflation heading
into this oil price shock.
>> Right. Are you still bullish on the
economic outlook, or are you getting
more concerned? Well, of course you've
got to get more concerned, but what
we've done is we've taken our right tail
risk out of our growth forecast.
So, we're at 2.7% Q4 over Q4, which is
one of the stronger numbers on the
street, if not the strongest number on
the street. And what we've really was
saying is that the right tail risk has
come off. You know, we don't see the
energy story having the same impact as
the near term impact on refund check
distribut- refund check distribution.
And if you notice, refunds are starting
to pick up. We're about $18 billion
higher than we were at this time last
year. We think we can easily get to 100
to 150 billion dollars worth of refunds
being distributed between now and the
end of May extra refunds being
contributed distributed now to the end
of May. And I think that provides a good
deal of near term support to the
economy. Then as we lose that, we start
to get the interest rate impact from
last year's rate cuts, which then help
offset. Now, the energy story, yes, is,
you know, Jonathan pointed out where oil
gasoline prices go start to seep into
the system. But again, people have ways
of redistributing how they spend money.
Um and that becomes part of the issue. I
mean, you one thing is instead of taking
a longer road trip this summer, if
energy prices are high, you take a
shorter road trip this summer. You know,
people have a way of adjusting
themselves uh to to relative prices. And
I think that those are the kind of
things that economists tend not to
really take into consideration.
>> Steve, can I ask you about these metal
moves? Aluminum down by 7%, base metals
getting beaten up, copper down by four,
precious metals, too. Silver's down by
10, gold's down by close to five. What
do you make of that? That's the global
growth impact. This is going to this is
a serious impact. When you look at the
original energy price stories in the
1970s, we were the least well prepared.
Okay, most of Europe was modern
electrified plant. They were dealing
with nuclear power. We were old steam
generation pre-war plant. So, 25% of
America's capacity went obsolete
overnight.
Okay, and that's what helped create the
stagflation environment. Um and it it
was happening in a world of excess
demand for tradeable goods. As the baby
boom population was just moving into the
labor force, productivity was going
down. Now, it's just the opposite story.
Europe is in the weaker space. Asia is
in the weaker space in their dependence
on the energy. We have energy. We're not
dealing with as much of a supply shock.
We're dealing with a price shock.
And that's the thing. In the '70s, we
were dealing with a supply shock. Okay,
I lived 50 miles from my school and I
had to drive back and forth each day in
my car. I had a 10-gallon tank and 10
miles to the gallon. So, I had to fill
up every day. On an odd-even system, I'm
changing license plates every morning,
getting up at 4:00 in the morning to get
on a gas line so I could get to school
for 9:00. Okay? And this is what I was
doing every single day. You would go
through gas stations. There were yellow,
green, and red flags. Red, you had no
fuel. Yellow, you could fill up for five
three to five dollars. And green, you
could fill up your car. So, I mean, this
is the stuff that was going on back
then. That's very different today.
Supply is available. You're paying a
different price, which means it's a
relative price story. Steve, just going
to say you. Cheers.
>> Cheers. Thank you, sir. Thank you very
much. Steve Shorter there of Mizuho. We
keep going back to it. We've had the
energy shock. We're seeing a rate shock.
Is the growth shock up next? Yeah, I was
listening to Jimmy Carter's malaise
speech yesterday because that's what I
was harking back to.
>> time. And I was just really struck by
what Steve was talking about. Changing
license plates. Take the bus. Carpool.
It doesn't go over well with the
American people. It didn't go over well
in 1979. And frankly, it's not going to
go over well this time. We are a long
way from some of the prices that would
really be concerning, but the level, the
pace of moves just absolutely stunning.
Put on a sweater is never a good
message, is it? Nope.
Put a No, put a coat on.
>> Or an odd or even license plate. My dad
just went through this with me. He was
telling me all about it. How you know,
if you had multiple cars, you would be
switching license plates.
Headache. This could be a tough moment.
Let's get an update on everything we've
heard in the last hour or so with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohai has more. Hey,
Yohai. Hi, John. We are seeing oil
prices coming off their highs for the
day on comments from the US Treasury
Secretary Scott Bassin saying the US
could do a unilateral release of the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve. He also
said the US may unsanction Iranian oil
that is already floating on water and
that Kharg Island may be eventually
become a US asset.
Meanwhile, we are seeing the pound
rising and yields on two-year gilts
surging. The Bank of England voting
unanimously to keep interest rates on
hold and saying it stands ready to act
to tackle any inflation surge it
triggered by the war in the Middle East.
Traders fully pricing in three quarter
point rate hikes by the end of the year.
And recapping that data we just got,
jobless claims coming coming in at
205,000 for last week. That's 8,000 less
than the previous week and that saw
213,000 claims. Continuing claims rose
to 1.86 million, slightly more than the
previous week. That's your Bloomberg
Brief, John. Johanna, thank you. Thanks
for the update. Up next, we'll talk
bonds and this big move in yields. Ian
Lyngen of has traders no longer
pricing a Fed rate cut for 2026. From
New York City, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
One of those crazy mornings. Let's get
to it. Let's unpack this price action
together and start with stocks. Equity
features down by 0.7% on the S&P.
Underperformance on the Russell small
caps negative by more than one
percentage point. The bigger relative
underperformance though is coming
elsewhere. It's coming from Europe. Look
at these moves, aggressively lower. The
DAX is down by close to 3%. The Euro
Stoxx 50 off by 2.5 and there's a reason
for that. Look at these two prices, WTI
versus Brent. Earlier on this morning,
we're opening up a gap as wide as 20
bucks. WTI right now is at 97. We spoke
to Samantha Della Goldman earlier on
this morning. And she suggested that
maybe there's some speculation here
about export controls coming into this
market, but also highlighted that none
of that is straightforward. So, you've
got WTI at about 97, up by 6/10. Brent
up by five. Just off session highs at
113. And the Treasury secretary in the
press this morning speaking to the
media, that we may unsanction Iranian
crude that's on water. That is highly
controversial. It's sanctioned. Russian
crude is sanctioned, too, but they've
issued waivers for some of that. And now
the speculation may be that they're
going to do the same thing with Iran.
Okay, so that's your picture of crude.
As if the energy shock wasn't enough,
now we've got a rate shock.
Look at this move.
Treasury yield to the front end of the
curve up 10 basis points yesterday, up
by 12 this morning.
That is nothing compared to this in the
UK. We've had the Federal Reserve and
Chairman Powell anchoring inflation
expectations. Bank of England
doing exactly the same thing in a market
that's pricing in
interest rate hikes, not just in the UK,
but in Europe, too. A 37 basis point
move in the UK. Not on the year,
not on the month or the week, on the
session. Twos at 450. Yeah, this idea
that suddenly you have a Bank of England
that needs to combat inflation first and
foremost, sending dovish members into a
hiking posture, highlights how much the
tables have turned, how much things have
changed in the Bank of England and
frankly for the ECB, where we now have
three rate hikes priced in for the
remainder of this year.
>> Ian Lincoln of PIMCO joins us now for
more. Ian, good morning. Good morning.
What a morning, sir. What do you make of
these moves? And do you think we're
overdoing it at the front end of the US
curve?
So, I think that the US is in a specific
situation since the Fed has a dual
mandate. And we were already uncertain
about the labor market going in to this
series of events. Europe, the UK, that
makes more sense given how we would
expect monetary policy makers to react
there. I do think that it is not the
type of move to jump in front of because
there's so much uncertainty associated
with what's going on in the Middle East
and how that's going to continue to play
through to the energy sector. We could
get a $125, $130 a barrel oil very
easily if this continues to unfold in a
scale that is measured in months, not
weeks as it was originally intended. I'm
struck by the yield curve, which is
rapidly compressing, rapidly narrowing.
People are expecting that higher front
end yields are going to send growth
substantially lower and perhaps even
more so in the Euro region. How much
confidence do you have that that is the
correct move? That there is going to be
a move much lower, say in 2027,
in response to holding rates higher,
whether it's hiking or whether it's just
a hold.
I think that a flatter curve in this
environment makes sense. I think 10 and
30 year should outperform because if the
Fed does fight inflation, delays rate
cuts, then we should see break evens
compress over time and nominal rates
slip lower. What I'm worried about is
I'm worried about the fact that we
haven't fully integrated what happens to
demand in this situation. What happens
to the fact that we have higher
um prices at the pump that leads to
consumers needing to make some hard
choices and we could see consumers under
a lot of stress over the next several
quarters, which undermines the strong
growth argument in the US, which has
kind of defined us for the last couple
years. So, Ian, when you put this shock
together, is it bullish or bearish for
fixed income? For bonds, for Treasuries?
I think it's long-term bullish for
Treasuries. Lower rates remains my base
case. I think 10 year yields are below
4% by the end of the year and I think
that the two year sector is going to
continue to struggle. Super, super
volatile at the front end of the curve
right now. Major moves. 30 basis points
plus in the UK, double digits in the US
and you're starting to see it in growth.
This move in base metals, and I keep
going back to it, aluminum down by
seven, copper down by five. Precious
metals providing you no relief
whatsoever this morning. Gold down by
five, silver down by 11.
>> and silver, put them aside for a second.
The aluminum and copper moves directly
speaking to what Ian Ling is talking
about, which is demand destruction. And
the idea that people are starting to
comprehend what that looks like as they
hit to global growth. It looks
increasingly likely. I just wonder how
long this can go on before people have
to start talking about other ways that
this feeds through to the market,
including in the US. We have this whole
idea that data centers are going to save
us. How do you build them if you don't
have access to a lot of the materials?
How do you build them if you don't have
easy access to the energy prices? So,
there are a lot of questions here around
frankly the bull case for all markets,
global markets in particular going into
the year.
>> minutes time, there's an ECB interest
rate decision. Good luck. In the next
hour, there's a news conference with
Christine Lagarde of the European
Central Bank. Is she going to follow
what we heard from the chairman
yesterday, from the Bank of England this
morning? And if she does,
what does it mean for this market? Ian
Ling, and thank you, sir. Ian Ling and
there of Tomorrow, full reaction
for you. John Stoltzfus Oppenheimer,
Michael Zezas of Morgan Stanley, Lofti
Karoui of PIMCO, Jonathan Golub of
Seaport from New York City this morning.
Good morning. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.